.lf 1 expertd.man
.\" @(#)graphicTest.man,v 0.0 2006/02/28 11:00:00 CERN IT-FIO giulia taurelli
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 by CERN/IT/FIO
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH GRAPHICTEST 1 "2006/02/28 11:00:00 CERN IT-FIO" CASTOR "Graphic Interface to test the Stager"
.SH NAME
python graphicTest.py\- run the script.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
In the edit boxs the name of files  can be entered using the full path or writing  castor:nameFile to access your castor directory.
.LP
e.g. castor:myFile.txt or castor:tmp/MyNewFile.txt.
.LP
The following functions can be run using the relative buttons:
.LP
.B STAGER_QRY:
.LP
Insert the name of the file in File 1 or the user tag in Tag.
You can add more option with the following syntax.
[-M hsmfile [-M ...]] [-F fileid@nshost] [-U usertag] [-r requestid] [-n] [-h]
.LP
.B STAGER_PUT:
.LP
Insert the name of the file in File 1  and, if you want, the user tag in Tag.
You can add more option with the following syntax.
[-M hsmfile ...] [-S svcClass] [-U usertag] [-r] [-h]
.LP
.B STAGER_PUTDONE:
.LP
Insert the name of the file in File 1.
You can add more option with the following syntax.
[-M hsmfile ...] [-r requestid] [-h]
.LP
.B STAGER_GET:
.LP Insert the name of the file in File 1 or the user tag in Tag.
You can add more option with the following syntax.
[-M...] [-S service_class] [-U usertag] [-r] [-h]

.LP 
.B STAGER_RM:
.LP
Insert the name of the file in File 1.
You can add more option with the following syntax.
file [-M ...]
.LP
.B RFCP:
.LP
To copy the File 1 into File 2.
As option you can use [-s maxsize][-v2]. 
.LP
.B RFRM:
.LP To remove File 1. 
As option you can use [-r]. 
.LP
.B NSLS:
.LP To look your castor dir or in its folders using the path in File1.
Possible options are:
[-cdilRTu] [--class] [--comment] [--deleted] [--checksum]
.LP
.B Important:
.LP
 - "graphicTest.py" uses "Test1.py" and "myTestSuite.py" which must be on the same directory.
.LP
 - "myTestSuite.py" can be run from console to test the stager without graphic Interface.
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>

