.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cupvadd.man,v $ $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2004/02/05 10:39:51 $ CERN IT-DS/HSM Ben Couturier
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/DS/HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\" 
.TH "Cupvadd" "1" "$Date: 2004/02/05 10:39:51 $" "CASTOR" "UPV Administrator commands"
.SH "NAME"
Cupvadd \- Adds an entry to the user privilege validation system
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B Cupvadd
[
.BI \-\-uid " uid " | \-\-user " username"
] [
.BI \-\-gid " gid " | \-\-group " groupname"
]
.BI \-\-src " source_host"
.BI \-\-tgt " target_host"
.BI \-\-priv " privilege"

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Cupvadd
Adds an entry to the user privilege validation system. The permissions are always specified in this way: a given privilege level on a target machine (see below) is given  to a given uid/gid from a source machine.
.TP 
.I uid/user
is the user id/user name of the user for whom the authorization is requested.
.TP 
.I gid/group
is the group id/group name of the user for whom authorization is requested.
.TP 
.I source_host
regular expression for the source host name, which should not include the domain name.
.TP 
.I target_host
regular expression for the target host name, which should not include the domain name.
.TP 
.I privilege
is the privilege requested. It must be one of the following:
.IP 
.TP
.BR OPERATOR 
(normal operator), 
.TP
.BR TAPE_OPERATOR 
(tape operator), 
.TP
.BR GRP_ADMIN 
(experiment Administrator), 
.TP
.BR ADMIN 
(CASTOR Administrator), 
.TP
.BR UPV_ADMIN 
(Administrator for CASTOR privileges), 
.TP
.BR TAPE_SYSTEM 
(Used by CASTOR tape software)
.TP
or a combination separated with "|".
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful, or 1 if the operation
failed or if the authorization is rejected. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Cupvcheck(1) ,
.BR Cupvdelete(1) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1) ,
.BR Cupvmodify(1)
.BR Cupv_add(3) ,
.BR Cupv_delete(3) ,
.BR Cupv_list(3) ,
.B Cupv_modify(3)
.SH "AUTHOR"
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
