.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cupvmodify.man,v $ $Revision: 1.3 $ $Date: 2002/10/16 08:05:39 $ CERN IT-DS/HSM Ben Couturier
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/DS/HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\" 
.TH "Cupvmodify" "1" "$Date: 2002/10/16 08:05:39 $" "CASTOR" "UPV Administrator commands"
.SH "NAME"
Cupvmodify \- Adds an entry to the user privilege validation system
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B Cupvmodify
[
.BI \-\-uid " uid " | \-\-user " username"
] [
.BI \-\-gid " gid " | \-\-group " groupname"
]
.BI \-\-src " source_host"
.BI \-\-tgt " target_host"
[
.BI \-\-priv " privilege" | \-\-newsrc " new_source_host" | \-\-newtgt "new_target_host" 
]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B Cupvmodify
Modifies an entry in the user privilege validation system. The permissions are always specified in this way: a given privilege level on a target machine (see below) is given  to a given uid/gid from a source machine.
.TP 
.I uid/user
is the user id/user name of the user for whom the authorization is requested.
.TP 
.I gid/group
is the group id/group name of the user for whom authorization is requested.
.TP 
.I source_host
the regular expression for the source host.
.TP 
.I target_host
the regular expression for the target host.
.TP 
.I privilege
is the privilege requested. It must be one of the following:
.TP 
.I new_source_host
the regular expression for the new source host.
.TP 
.I new_target_host
the regular expression for the new target host.
.IP 
.BR OPERATOR, 
.BR TAPE_OPERATOR, 
.BR GRP_ADMIN, 
.BR ADMIN, 
.BR UPV_ADMIN, 
.BR TAPE_SYSTEM 
or a combination separated with "|".
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful, or 1 if the operation
failed or if the authorization is rejected. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR Cupvadd(1) , 
.B Cupvcheck(1) ,
.B Cupvdelete(1) ,
.B Cupvlist(1) ,
.B Cupv_add(3) ,
.B Cupv_delete(3) ,
.B Cupv_list(3) ,
.B Cupv_modify(3)
.SH "AUTHOR"
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
