.\" @(#)$RCSfile: migHunterDaemon.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2007/11/06 13:34:47 $ CERN IT/ADC Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH MIGHUNTER 1 "$Date: 2007/11/06 13:34:47 $" CASTOR "RTCOPY Operator Commands"
.SH NAME
MigHunter \- default migration candidate hunter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B MigHunter
[
.BI -C
]
[
.BI -f
[
.BI -t
] [
.BI sleepTime
]
[
.BI -v
] [
.BI dataThreshold
]
.BI svcClass1
[
.BI svcClass2 ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B MigHunter
is the default stream creator and migration candidate hunter provided with the CASTOR
stager.
.SH OPTIONS
At least one service class has to be specified at the end of the command line.
If no other option is given, the program will start in foreground and make
.I one
iteration (select candidates, create streams, start streams) and exit. Information and
error messages are logged to stdout/stderr.
.TP
.BI \-C
switch instructs the
.B MigHunter
when creating new streams to always clone an existing stream if it finds one associated
with the service class. The stream cloning can give a load-balancing advantage when new
streams are added to a service class. Be aware, however, that it is an heavy operation
if the existing stream has many (1000s) of migration candidates.
.TP
.BI \-t " sleepTime"
specifies the time between two database lookups. 
.TP
.BI \-f
To run in foreground
.TP
.B \-v " dataThreshold"
specifies the minimum amount of data required for starting a new migration. Note that
this option has no effect if there are already running streams for the service class.

Two parameters in the 
.B /etc/castor/castor.conf 
specify the location of the file where all the policy functions are declared. 

e.g.:

.B Policy MIGRATION /etc/castor/migrationPolicies.py

.B Policy STREAM  /etc/castor/streamPolicies.py

Then for each svcclass we specify in the database the function that we want to execute between the ones declared in the file.
If no function is specified we act like the policy allows the operation.
If an error is reported by the function we act like a negative response from the policy.


.SH EXAMPLE
.fi
# MigHunter default
.fi
# MigHunter  -t 300 -v 100G alicemdc6

.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
