.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH TAPEBRDIGED 8 "$Date: 2009/08/18 09:42:55 $" CASTOR "CASTOR"
.SH NAME
tapebridged \- Tape bridge daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "tapebridged [OPTIONS]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtapebridged\fP is the daemon responsible for acting as a protocol bridge
between the tape gateway-daemons and the legacy rtcpd daemon.
.P
When \fBtapebridged\fP is executed it immediately forks with the parent
terminating and the child running in the background.  If required the
\fB\-f, \-\-foreground\fP option can be used to stop \fBtapebridged\fP from
forking and keep the parent process in the foreground.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-foreground
Remain in the foreground.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-config config-file
Overides the default location of the CASTOR configuration file.  The default
is /etc/castor/castor.conf
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage message


.SH CASTOR CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
The tapebridge daemon reads and uses the following CASTOR configuration
parameters which are specified using environment variables or within the CASTOR
configuration file (the default location is /etc/castor/castor.conf).
.TP
\fBTAPEBRDIGE VDQMPORT
The port on which the tapebridge will listen for RTCOPY jobs from the VDQM.
The default is 5070.  This configuration parameter should \fBNOT\fP normally be
set and the default should be used.
.TP
\fBTAPEBRDIGE RTCPDLOWPORT
The inclusive low port of the tapebridge's RTCPD callback port number range.
The default is 30101.
.TP
\fBTAPEBRDIGE RTCPDHIGHPORT
The inclusive high port of the tapebridge's RTCPD callback port number range.
The default is 30200.
.TP
\fBtapebridged LOGSTANDARD XXXX
Sets the location of the \fBtapebridged\fP log file to be \fBXXXX\fP.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/castor/castor.conf
Default location of the CASTOR configuration file.
.TP
.B /var/log/castor/tapebridged.log
Default location of the tape tapebridge log file.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
