.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH CASTOR-TAPE-MOUNT 1 "$Date: 2009/08/07 15:56:38 $" CASTOR "CASTOR"
.SH NAME
castor-tape-mount \- mount a volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "castor-tape-mount [options] VID DRIVE"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B castor-tape-mount
mounts the volume with the specfied VID in into the drive with the specified
DRIVE ID. The DRIVE ID format depends on the type of tape library being used.
The
.B castor-tape-mount
currently supports two types of tape library, namely SCSI-compatible libraries
and ACS-compatible libraries.  The DRIVE ID format for SCSI-compatible
libraries is:

.B smc@HOSTNAME,DRIVE_ORDINAL

The DRIVE ID format for ACS-compatible libraries is:

.B ACS:LSM:panel:transport

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-debug
Turns on the printing of debug information.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage message.
.TP
\fB\-q, \-\-query SECONDS
Time wait between queries to ACLS for responses.
SECONDS must be an integer value greater than 0.
The default value of SECONDS is 10.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-readonly
Request the volume is mounted for read-only access.
.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-timeout SECONDS
Time to wait for the mount operation to conclude.  
SECONDS must be an integer value greater than 0.
The default value of SECONDS is 600.

.SH "RETURN CODES"
.TP
\fB 0
Ok.
.TP
\fB 1
Command failed.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
