.lf 1 cleaningDaemon.man
.\" @(#)cleaningDaemon.man,v 1.1 2006/02/28 12:00:00 CERN IT-FIO giulia taurelli
.\" Copyright (C) 2006 by CERN/IT/FIO
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RECHANDLERDAEMON 1 "2006/02/28 12:00:00 CERN IT-FIO" CASTOR "recHandler daemon"
.SH NAME
recHandlerDaemon \- start the CASTOR Garbage Collector daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recHandlerDaemon [-f] [-t time] [svcclass1 [svcclass2] ... [svcclassN]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The 
.B recHandler daemon 
command starts the rechandler daemon
which trigger the recall from tape periodically.
The tapes involed in the process are the ones in the tapepools associated to the input service classes ([svcclass1 [svcclass2] ... [svcclassN]).
If no svcclass is given as input no tape is analysed.

.LP
A parameter in the 
.B /etc/castor/castor.conf 
specify the location of the file where all the policy function are declared. 

e.g.:
.B Policy RECALL /etc/castor/recallPolicies.py

Then for each svcclass we specify in the database the function that we want to execute between the ones declared in the file.
If no function is specified we set the tape as pending and we start to recall from it as soon as possible.
The same we do if anything goes wrong in calling the policy for a tape.
  
.LP
The recallHandler daemon execute its actions every 48 seconds by default but this option can be changed using -t comand line option.
e.g. 
.B recHandlerDaemon -t 120

.LP
All 
.B recHandlerDaemon
activity is logged using the Distributed Logging Facility (DLF).
.LP 
.B recHandlerDaemon -f
starts the daemon 
in foreground mode. Should not be used normally.  
.LP
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>





