.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Ctape_reserve.man,v $ $Revision: 1.3 $ $Date: 1999/09/11 06:04:46 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1990-1999 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CTAPE_RESERVE l "$Date: 1999/09/11 06:04:46 $"
.SH NAME
Ctape_reserve \- reserve tape resources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Ctape_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Ctape_reserve (int " count ,
.BI "struct dgn_rsv *" dgn_rsv );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ctape_reserve
gives permission to access tape drives.
It is mandatory to specify all resources which will be used
simultaneously by the job in one Ctape_reserve call (to avoid deadlocks).
The tape daemon will check that enough drives are configured up.
.I count
gives the number of elements in the array of structures
.IR dgn_rsv .
.PP
.nf
.cs R 18
/* structure for device group reservation */
struct dgn_rsv {
        char    name[CA_MAXDGNLEN+1];
        int     num;
};
.cs R
.fi
For each device group to be used, specify the device group name (CART, 8MM...)
in the
.B name
member of the structure and the number of drives in
.BR num .

     For example:

.nf
	int c;
	int count = 2;
	static struct dgn_rsv dgn_rsv[2] = {"CART", 1, "8MM", 1};
	c = Ctape_reserve (count, dgn_rsv);
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.2i
.B ENOMEM
Could not allocate memory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Bad parameter value.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ETDNP
Tape daemon is not running.
.TP
.B ETRSV
Reserve already issued.
.TP
.B ETNDV
Too many drives requested.
.TP
.B ETIDG
Invalid device group name.
