.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Ctape_mount.man,v $ $Revision: 1.16 $ $Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:55 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1990-2001 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CTAPE_MOUNT 3 "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:55 $" CASTOR "Ctape Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Ctape_mount \- send a request to the tape daemon to have a tape mounted
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Ctape_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Ctape_mount (char *" path ,
.BI "char *" vid ,
.BI "int " side ,
.BI "char *" dgn ,
.BI "char *" density ,
.BI "char *" drive ,
.BI "int " mode ,
.BI "char *" vsn ,
.BI "char *" lbltype ,
.BI "int " vdqm_reqid );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Ctape_mount
checks with TMS if the tape identified by
.I vid
is available, asks the operator or the robot to mount it on the drive selected
by the tape daemon or specified by
.IR drive ,
checks the vsn
in VOL1 if the tape is labelled.
In case of failure the drive is freed.
.TP
.I path
specifies the pathname relative to the current directory or the full pathname
which is used by the application program in the
.B open
statement. This path should not be null and should not exist yet.
.TP
.I vid
is the volume visual identifier.
It must be at most six characters long and is converted to upper case.
.TP
.I side
is an integer specifying the side number.
This field is only used if the specified device offers several sides,
for example a DVD.
.TP
.I dgn
The device group name must be a member of an installation defined set of
"device groups". It must match the device group specified in TMS (if installed).
If this pointer is NULL, the value is taken from TMS or defaults to CART.
.TP
.I density
The supported alphanumeric densities are:
.br
.B 1600
or
.B 6250
for round (IBM 3420) tapes,
.B 38000
for standard IBM 3480 cartridges,
.B 38KC
for 3480 cartridges with compaction (IDRC),
.B 38KD
for double density IBM 3490 cartridges,
.B 38KDC
for 3490 cartridges with compaction (IDRC),
.BR 8200 ,
.B 8500
or
.B 8500C
for Exabytes,
.B DDS
or
.B DDSC
for DAT cartridges,
.BR 2G ,
.BR 6G ,
.BR 10G ,
.BR 10GC ,
.BR 20G ,
.BR 20GC ,
.B 35G
or
.B 35GC
for DLT cartridges,
.B 10G
or
.B 10GC
for IBM 3590 cartridges,
.BR 10G ,
.BR 10GC ,
.BR 25G ,
.BR 25GC ,
.B 50G
or
.B 50GC
for Redwood cartridges,
.B 20G
or
.B 20GC
for STK 9840 cassettes.
.TP
.I drive
specifies the drive name. If this pointer is NULL, a drive is selected by the
tape daemon.
.TP
.I mode
may be either
.B WRITE_ENABLE
or
.BR WRITE_DISABLE .
.TP
.I vsn
specifies the magnetically recorded volume serial number of the tape.
It must be at most six characters long and is converted to upper case.
The vsn must match the one specified in TMS.
.TP
.I lbltype
may be
.BR al ,
.BR nl ,
.B sl
or
.BR blp .
It must match the label type specified in TMS.
.B blp
is allowed only for read.
Default is
.BR sl .
.TP
.I vdqm_reqid
is the request identifier assigned by vdqm.
It should be zero in case vdqm is not used.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.2i
.B EIO
I/O error.
.TP
.B ENXIO
Drive not operational. The drive is automatically configured down.
.TP
.B EACCES
Access denied by TMS.
.TP
.B EBUSY
Requested drive is not free or no free drive.
.TP
.B EEXIST
Path exists already.
.TP
.B EINVAL
Bad parameter value.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ETDNP
Tape daemon is not running.
.TP
.B ETNDV
Too many drives requested.
.TP
.B ETIDG
Invalid device group name.
.TP
.B ETNRS
Reserve not done.
.TP
.B ETIDN
No unit with requested characteristics.
.TP
.B ETBLANK
Blank tape.
.TP
.B ETCOMPA
Drive/cartridge compatibility problem.
.TP
.B ETHWERR
Device malfunction.
.TP
.B ETPARIT
Parity error.
.TP
.B ETUNREC
Unrecoverable media error.
.TP
.B ETNOSNS
No sense data available.
.TP
.B ETRSLT
Reselect server requested by operator.
.TP
.B ETVBSY
Volume busy or inaccessible.
.TP
.B ETABSENT
Volume absent.
.TP
.B ETARCH	 
Volume archived.
.TP
.B ETHELD
Volume held (TMS).
.TP
.B ETOPAB
Operator cancel.
.TP
.B ETVUNKN
Volume unknown.
.TP
.B ETWLBL
Wrong label type.
.TP
.B ETWPROT
Cartridge write protected.
.TP
.B ETWVSN
Wrong vsn.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vdqm_SendVolReq(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
