.\" @(#)$RCSfile: dumptape.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2000/02/03 10:44:43 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1990-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH DUMPTAPE 1 "$Date: 2000/02/03 10:44:43 $" CASTOR "Ctape User Commands"
.SH NAME
dumptape \- dump a tape and analyze its contents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dumptape
[
.BI -B " maxbyte"
] [
.BI -b " max_block_size"
] [
.BI -C " code"
] [
.BI -d " density"
] [
.B -E ignoreeoi
] [
.BI -F " maxfile"
] [
.BI -g " device_group_name"
] [
.BI -N " blknos"
] [
.BI -S " tape_server"
] {
.BI -v " volume_serial_number"
]
.BI -V " visual_identifier"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dumptape
finds out if the tape is labelled or not; if the tape is labelled, it finds out
if the label is ASCII or EBCDIC.
It also dumps the blocks content in hexadecimal and in ASCII or EBCDIC.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-B " maxbyte"
Number of bytes per block to be dumped (0 means all bytes). Default is 320.
.TP
.BI \-b " blksize"
Specifies the maximum block size. Default is 65536.
.TP
.BI \-C " code"
.RB "Character code for data interpretation (" ascii " or " ebcdic ).
Default is ebcdic.
.TP
.BI \-d " density"
.B 1600
or
.B 6250
for round (IBM 3420) tapes,
.B 38000
for standard IBM 3480 cartridges,
.B 38KC
for 3480 cartridges with compaction (IDRC),
.B 38KD
for double density IBM 3490 cartridges,
.B 38KDC
for 3490 cartridges with compaction (IDRC),
.BR 8200 ,
.B 8500
or
.B 8500C
for Exabytes,
.B DDS
or
.B DDSC
for DAT cartridges,
.BR 2G ,
.BR 6G ,
.BR 10G ,
.BR 10GC ,
.BR 20G ,
.BR 20GC ,
.B 35G
or
.B 35GC
for DLT cartridges,
.B 10G
or
.B 10GC
for IBM 3590 cartridges,
.BR 10G ,
.BR 10GC ,
.BR 25G ,
.BR 25GC ,
.B 50G
or
.B 50GC
for Redwood cartridges,
.B 20G
or
.B 20GC
for STK 9840 cassettes.
If this parameter is missing, the value is taken from TMS (if installed) or
defaults to 6250 for device group TAPE (IBM 3420).
.TP
.B \-E ignoreeoi
Do not take two consecutive tapemarks as End Of Information.
If the number of files to dump is not limited by the option
.BR \-F ,
the dump will terminate only when encountering blank tape or too many parity
errors (on IBM3420, the reel would wind off).
.TP
.BI \-F " maxfile"
Number of files to be dumped (0 means all files; this the default for 3420/3480/3490).
The default value for long media (Exabytes, DLTs, IBM3590) is one data file.
.TP
.BI \-g " dgn"
Requests a device from an installation defined set of "device groups".
It must match the device group specified in TMS (if installed).
If this parameter is missing, the value is taken from TMS or
defaults to CART.
.TP
.BI \-N " blknos"
Starting and ending block numbers to be dumped separated by comma.
Default is 1, i.e. first block of each file).
.TP
.BI \-S " server"
Specifies that the tape should be read on the tape server
.IR server.
.TP
.BI \-V " vid"
Specifies the tape
.SM VID.
.TP
.BI \-v " vsn"
Specifies the tape magnetic label
.SM VSN.
.LP
All options can be given in any order.
The space between option name and option value is optional.
.SH NOTES
When the remote version of dumptape is used, i.e. dumptape is not executed on
the tape server itself, the output is written to stderr.
.SH EXAMPLES

dumptape -V 12345A
	will dump a maximum of 320 bytes from the first block of every file.

dumptape -B 0 -F 1 -N 4,5 -V 12345A
	will dump all bytes in block 4 and 5 from first file.

.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
