.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stager_qry.man,v $ $Revision: 1.16 $ $Date: 2007/01/18 17:05:40 $ CERN IT/ADC Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGER_QRY 1castor "$Date: 2007/01/18 17:05:40 $" CASTOR "STAGER Commands"
.SH NAME
stager_qry \- query the CASTOR stager for files and requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stager_qry
[
.BI -M
.BI hsmfile
[
{
.BI -M
}
.BI ...
]]
[
.BI -S
.BI svcClass
]
[
.BI -U
.BI usertag
]
[
.BI -F
.BI fileid@nshost
]
[
.BI -r
.BI requestid
]
[
.BI -n
]
[
.BI -h
]

.B stager_qry
.BI -s
[
.BI -S
.BI svcClass
]
[
.BI -d
.BI diskPool
]
[
.BI -h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B stager_qry
command can be used for querying the status and progress of CASTOR files and stager request
submitted using the
.BI stager_get(1castor)
,
.BI stager_put(1castor)
or
.BI rfcp(1castor) 
commands as well as for getting statistics concerning the diskpools (-s option).
.fi

.BI File\ querying

Default output includes 3 columns: the basename of the HSM name, the fileid in the used castor name server, and the current status of the found record. The latter can be:
.TP 10
.BI STAGEIN
the file is being recalled from tape or being internally disk-to-disk copied from another diskpool.
.TP
.BI STAGED
the file has been successfully staged from tape and it is available on disk, or the file is only available on disk if its associated nbTapeCopies = 0, see the nschclass(1castor) command.
.TP
.BI STAGEOUT
the file is being staged from client.
.TP
.BI CANBEMIGR
the file is on disk and any transfer from client has been completed. The migrator will take it for tape migration.
.TP
.BI INVALID
the file has no valid diskcopy/tapecopy, or a failure happened concerning the file. 


.TP 0
.BI DiskPool\ querying

All disk servers and file systems composing the disk pool are listed. For each filesystem, the mountpoint, status, capacity, free space, reserved space and garbage collector bounds are given. These bounds are the minimum and maximum amout of free space desired (given as fraction of the total space).
For each diskserver, the name, status, aggregated capacity, free space and reserved space are given.
Finally for each pool, the aggregated capacity, free and reserved space are given.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-M,\ \-\-hsm_filename " hsmfile"
specifies the CASTOR HSM file to be queried for. The
.B \-M
option can be repeated, which allows for querying the status of many files with a single command.
If the hsmfile begins with 'regexp:', it is considered as a POSIX regular expression.
If the hsmfile ends with '/', or if it's a directory according to the nameserver, the query is performed recursively on the status of all files into it.
Note that the number of responses for a given file is limited on the server side. In case the limitation
is reached, nothing is returned and an error message is displayed.
Also note that you may have more files listed here than in the nameserver in case the stager still has a copy of a file that was manually removed from the nameserver using the nsrm or rfrm command.
.TP
.BI \-E,\ \-\-regexp " regular_expression"
specifies the CASTOR HSM file to be queried for. This option is equivalent to the
.B \-M
option when the file name begins with 'regexp:'. regular_expression is considered as a POSIX regular expression.
The
.B \-E
option can be repeated, which allows for querying the status of many files with a single command.
Note that the number of responses for a given file is limited on the server side. In case the limitation
is reached, nothing is returned and an error message is displayed.
.TP
.BI \-F,\ \-\-fileid " fileid@nshost"
query by CASTOR fileid and nshost. The fileid is a unique 64bit number assigned by the CASTOR name server to each file in its namespace. The fileid can be retrieved using the
.BI nsls(1castor)
command with the
.BI \-i
switch.
.TP
.BI \-S,\ \-\-svcClass " svcClass"
specifies the service class to be used for the query
.TP
.BI \-U,\ \-\-usertag " usertag"
allows for querying the status of a request identified by usertag. An usertag is a user defined string specified with the
.BI \-U
option to the
.B stager_get(1castor)
and
.B stager_put(1castor)
commands. There is no constraint on the uniqueness of the usertag so it is up to the user to make sure that the string is unique enough to not clash with other users' usertags.
.fi
Note that if the request has been fully processed (i.e. all requested files are STAGED), it will not be possible anymore to query by usertag.
.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\-requestid " requestid"
allows for querying the status of a request identified by the stager request identifier.
The stager request identifier is a UUID (see
.B uuidgen(1)
) that uniquely identifies the stager request. The stager request identifier is printed when the
.BI \-r
option is specified with the
.B stager_get(1castor)
and
.B stager_put(1castor)
commands.
.fi
Note that if the request has been fully processed (i.e. all requested files are STAGED), it will not be possible anymore to query by request id.
.TP
.BI \-n,\ \-\-getnext
switches to getnext mode: allows for querying the list of files which have been recalled so far and not yet retrieved for a given GET request. The request can be identified by the stager request identifier or the user tag (see above).
Each file is given only once, allowing users to get the latest recalled files since last usage of the command.
.fi
This option applies only for
.B stager_get
requests and gives no answer for other requests. Moreover, it has to be used in conjunction with
.BI \-U
or
.BI \-r
options.
.TP
.BI \-s,\ \-\-statistic
display statistics concerning the disk pools
.TP
.BI \-d,\ \-\-diskPool " diskPool"
Specifies the disk pool for which statistics should be displayed. It has to be used in conjunction with
.BI \-s
and takes precedence over
.BI \-S
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
display command usage help
.TP

.SH EXAMPLES
.fi
$ stager_get -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file2 -U test1
.fi
Received 2 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 SUBREQUEST_READY
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file2 SUBREQUEST_READY
.fi

$ stager_qry -U test1
.fi
Received 2 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 8235742@castorns STAGEIN
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file2 8235743@castorns STAGED
.fi

$ stager_qry -n -U test1
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file2 8235743@castorns STAGED
.fi

$ stager_qry -n -U test1   (after some time)
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 8235742@castorns STAGED
.fi

$ stager_qry -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/
.fi
Received 2 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 8235742@castorns STAGED
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file2 8235743@castorns STAGED
.fi

$ nsls -i /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test2/file
.fi
    59316770 /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test2/file
.fi
$ stager_qry -F 59316770@castorns
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test2/file 59316770@castorns STAGEOUT
.fi

$ stager_qry -s
.fi
.nf
POOL default          CAPACITY 372.45G      FREE 372.04G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)
  DiskServer lxfsrk605        STATUS DISKSERVER_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.45G      FREE 372.04G(99%)     RESERVED       0( 0%)
     /shift/lxfsrk605/data02/         STATUS FILESYSTEM_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.45G      FREE 372.04G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)    GCBOUNDS 0.20, 0.30
POOL test             CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)
  DiskServer lxfsrk605        STATUS DISKSERVER_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)     RESERVED       0( 0%)
     /shift/lxfsrk605/data01/         STATUS FILESYSTEM_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)    GCBOUNDS 0.20, 0.30
.fi

$ stager_qry -s -d test
.fi
.nf
POOL test             CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)
  DiskServer lxfsrk605        STATUS DISKSERVER_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)     RESERVED       0( 0%)
     /shift/lxfsrk605/data01/         STATUS FILESYSTEM_PRODUCTION     CAPACITY 372.51G      FREE 372.31G(99%)    RESERVED       0( 0%)    GCBOUNDS 0.20, 0.30
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stager_get(1castor)
.BR stager_put(1castor)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
