.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGER_PUTDONE 1castor "$Date: 2008/06/02 16:27:29 $" CASTOR "STAGER Commands"
.SH NAME
stager_putdone \- terminate a CASTOR stager Put or Update session and flag files for tape migration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stager_putdone
[
.BI -M
.BI hsmfile
[
{
.BI -M
}
.BI ...
]]
[
.BI -f
.BI hsmFileList
]
[
.BI -r
.BI requestid
]
[
.BI -h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B stager_putdone
command should be used for terminating a
.BI stager_put(1castor)
or
.BI stager_update(1castor)
session. The effect of the
.B stager_putdone
command is to mark the request as finished and flag the associated CASTOR files as candidates
for tape migration.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-M,\ \-\-hsm_filename " hsmfile"
specifies the CASTOR HSM file to be flagged for migration. The
.B \-M
option can be repeated, allowing to handle several CASTOR files in the same request.
.TP
.BI \-f,\ \-\-filelist " hsmFileList"
specifies a file containing a list of CASTOR HSM file(s) to be flagged for migration, one per line.
This can be used to avoid the command line restrictions when many files should be flagged for migration at once.
.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\-requestid " requestid"
specifies the CASTOR stager request identifier of the request.
The stager request identifier is a UUID (see
.B uuidgen(1)
) that uniquely identifies the stager request. The stager request identifier is printed when the
.BI \-r
option is specified with the
.B stager_put(1castor)
commands.
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
display command usage help
.TP

.SH EXAMPLE
.fi
$ stager_put -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 -U test1 -r
.fi
42b002d7-0000-1000-9db8-cf9fcba30800
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 SUBRQUEST_READY
.fi
$ rfcp /etc/group /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1
.fi
2317 bytes in 0 seconds through local (in) and eth0 (out)
.fi
$ stager_qry -U test1
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
59316604@cnsuser STAGEOUT
.fi
$ rfcp /etc/passwd /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1
.fi
1240856 bytes in 0 seconds through local (in) and eth0 (out)
.fi
$ stager_putdone -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1
.fi
/castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1 SUBRQUEST_READY
.fi
$ stager_qry -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
59316604@cnsuser CANBEMIGR
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stager_qry(1castor) ,
.BR stager_put(1castor)
.BR stager_update(1castor) ,
.BR rfcp(1castor)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
