.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stager_abort.man,v $ $Revision: 1.10 $ $Date: 2009/03/25 13:23:36 $ CERN IT/ADC Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGER_ABORT 1castor "$Date: 2009/03/25 13:23:36 $" CASTOR "STAGER Commands"
.SH NAME
stager_abort \- request for aborting a request in the CASTOR stager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stager_abort
.BI -r
.BI requestUuid
[
.BI -M
.BI fileid@nsHost
[
.BI -M
.BI ...
]]
[
.BI -f
.BI hsmFileList
]
[
.BI -h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B stager_abort
command aborts a request or part of a request in the CASTOR stager. 
stager_abort operations can only be performed if the user has proper
permissions. At the stager level, user needs StageAbortRequest permissions
on the '*' disk pool.

In case of partial abort, the
.BI \-M
/
.BI \-\-filename
flags should be used to list concerned files. Note that this is only valid for
file related requests.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\-requestid " requestUuid"
specifies the uuid of the request to be aborted.
.TP
.BI \-M,\ \-\-filename " fileid@nsHost"
specifies the subpart of the request to be aborted in case of multifiles requests.
In case -M is not used, the whole request will be aborted, that is all files of a multifiles
request will be targetted.
.TP
.BI \-f,\ \-\-filelist " hsmFileList"
specifies a file containing a list of CASTOR HSM file(s) to be concerned by the abort, one per line.
This can be used to avoid the command line restrictions when many files should be aborted at once within a large request.
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
display command usage help
.TP

.SH EXAMPLE
.fi
$ stager_abort -r 4c10f2cf-0000-1000-85d5-de0284ff7eeb -M /castor/cern.ch/user/t/test/file1
.fi
Received 1 responses
.fi
512345678 SUBRQUEST_READY
.fi

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
