.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH TAPESERVERD "8castor" "$Date: 2014/03/24 14:44:00 $" CASTOR "CASTOR"
.SH NAME
tapeserverd \- Tape server daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "tapeserverd [OPTIONS]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtapeserverd\fP is the daemon responsible for controlling one or more tape
drives.
.P
When \fBtapeserverd\fP is executed it immediately forks with the parent
terminating and the child running in the background.  If required the
\fB\-f, \-\-foreground\fP option can be used to stop \fBtapeserverd\fP from
forking and keep the parent process in the foreground.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-foreground
Remain in the foreground.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage message.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-config <config-file>
Set the location of the CASTOR configuration file (castor.conf).  The default location is /etc/castor/castor.conf.

.SH CASTOR CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS
The tapeserver daemon reads and uses the following CASTOR configuration
parameters which are specified within the CASTOR configuration file (the
default location is /etc/castor/castor.conf).

.TP
\fBDiskManager MoverHandlerPort
The port on which the disk manager daemon listens to movers for their metadata
operations.

.TP
\fBRMC HOST
The host on which the rmcd daemon is running.

.TP
\fBTapeServer AdminPort
The TCP/IP port on which the tape server daemon listens for incoming
connections from the tpconfig admin command.

.TP
\fBTapeServer BlkMoveTimeout
The maximum time in seconds the data-transfer session of tapeserverd can
cease to move data blocks

.TP
\fBTapeServer BufSize
Size of a memory buffer in the data-transfer cache in bytes (default is 5
Mebibytes).

.TP
\fBTapeServer BulkRequestMigrationMaxBytes
When the tapeserverd daemon requests the tapegatewayd daemon for a set of
files to migrate to tape, this parameter defines the maximum number of bytes
the set of files should represent.

.TP
\fBTapeServer BulkRequestMigrationMaxFiles
When the tapeserverd daemon requests the tapegatewayd daemon for a set of
files to migrate to tape, this parameter defines the maximum number of files
the set may contain.

.TP
\fBTapeServer BulkRequestRecallMaxBytes
When the tapeserverd daemon requests the tapegatewayd daemon for a set of
files to recall from tape, this parameter defines the maximum number of bytes
the set of files should represent.

.TP
\fBTapeServer BulkRequestRecallMaxFiles
When the tapeserverd daemon requests the tapegatewayd daemon for a set of
files to recall from tape, this parameter defines the maximum number of files
the set may contain.

.TP
\fBTapeServer InternalPort 54322;
The TCP/IP port on which ZMQ sockets will bind for internal communication
between forked sessions and the parent tapeserverd process.

.TP
\fBTapeServer JobPort
The TCP/IP port on which the tape server daemon listens for incoming
connections and jobs from the VDQM server.

.TP
\fBTapeServer LabelPort
The TCP/IP port on which the tape server daemon listens for incoming
connections from the tape labeling command.

.TP
\fBTapeServer MaxBytesBeforeFlush
The value of this parameter defines the maximum number of bytes to be written
to tape before a flush to tape (synchronised tape-mark).  Please note that a
flush occurs on a file boundary therefore more bytes will normally be written
to tape before the actual flush occurs.

.TP
\fBTapeServer MaxFilesBeforeFlush
The value of this parameter defines the maximum number of files to be written
to tape before a flush to tape (synchronised or non-immediate tape-mark).

.TP
\fBTapeServer MountTimeout
The maximum time in seconds that the data-transfer session can take to mount a
tape.

.TP
\fBTapeServer NbBufs
Number of memory buffers in the data-transfer cache.

.TP
\fBTapeServer NbDiskThreads
The number of disk I/O threads.

.TP
\fBTapeServer VdqmHosts host host2 host3 ...
The list of trusted vdqm hosts.

.TP
\fBTapeServer RemoteFileProtocol
The protocol to be used when transfering files to and from disk servers.
Possible values are RFIO or XROOT.  The value is not case sensitive.

.TP
\fBTapeServer VdqmDriveSyncInterval
The time interval in seconds to wait between attempts to keep the vdqmd
daemon synchronized with the state of a tape drive within the catalogue of the
tapeserverd daemon.

.TP
\fBTapeServer WaitJobTimeout
The maximum time in seconds that the data-transfer session can take to get the
transfer job from the client.

.TP
\fBUPV HOST
The host on which the cupvd daemon is running.

.TP
\fBVDQM HOST
The host on which the vdqmd daemon is running.

.TP
\fBVMGR HOST
The host on which the vmgrd daemon is running.

.TP
\fBXROOT PrivateKey
The file hosting the Xroot private key, needed to sign Xroot URLs.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/castor/castor.conf
Default location of the CASTOR configuration file.
.TP
.B /var/log/castor/tapeserverd.log
Default location of the tape tapeserver log file.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
