.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgrlisttape.man,v $ $Revision: 1.5 $ $Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:58 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGRLISTTAPE 1 "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:58 $" CASTOR "vmgr Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
vmgrlisttape \- query the CASTOR Volume Manager about a tape or list all existing tapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vmgrlisttape
[
.BI -P " pool_name"
] [
.BI -V " vid"
] [
.B -x
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgrlisttape
queries the CASTOR Volume Manager about a given tape or lists all existing tapes
in tabular form:
.HP 1.2i
vid		volume visual identifier.
.HP
vsn		magnetically recorded volume serial number of the tape.
.HP
dgn		device group name corresponding to the tape.
.HP
density		alphanumeric density.
.HP
lbltype		label type.
.HP
model		model of cartridge.
.HP
media_letter	media identification letter. For example
"A", "B" or "C" for SD3 (Redwood), "J" for IBM 3590, "R" for STK 9840.
.HP
manufacturer
.HP
sn		cartridge serial number.
.HP
poolname
.HP
free_space
.HP
nbfiles		number of files written on the tape.
.HP
rcount		number of times the volume has been mounted for read.
.HP
wcount		number of times the volume has been mounted for write.
.HP
rtime		indicates the last time the volume was mounted for read.
.HP
wtime		indicates the last time the volume was mounted for write.
.HP
status		can be
.BR FULL ,
.BR BUSY ,
.BR RDONLY ,
.BR ARCHIVED ,
.B EXPORTED
or
.BR DISABLED .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-P " pool_name"
restricts the list to the tapes belonging to this pool.
.TP
.BI \-V " vid"
restricts the list to the tape having this volume visual identifier.
It must be at most CA_MAXVIDLEN characters long.
.TP
.B \-x
extended format.
If this option is not set, only vid, vsn, dgn, density, lbltype, poolname,
free_space, last access (read or write) and status are given.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
vmgrlisttape -V RT0001
RT0001 RT0001 9840R3 20GC     al default          20.00GB 00000000

vmgrlisttape -V RT0003 -x
RT0003 RT0003 9840R3 20GC     al 9840   R  STK          123456789 \\
         default          17.14GB    237     4     1 20010130 20001211 DISABLED
.ft
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR vmgr_entertape(3) ,
.BR vmgrentertape(1) ,
.B vmgr_listtape(3) ,
.B vmgr_querytape(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
