.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgr_modifymodel.man,v $ $Revision: 1.5 $ $Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:57 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGR_MODIFYMODEL 3 "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:57 $" CASTOR "vmgr Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vmgr_modifymodel \- modify an existing model of cartridge in the CASTOR Volume Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "vmgr_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vmgr_modifymodel (const char *" model ,
.BI "char *" media_letter ,
.BI "int " native_capacity ,
.BI "int " media_cost )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgr_modifymodel
modifies an existing model of cartridge in the CASTOR Volume Manager.
.TP
.I model
is the model of cartridge.
It must be at most CA_MAXMODELLEN characters long.
.TP
.I media_letter
is the media identification letter. For example "A", "B" or "C" for SD3 (Redwood
),
"J" for IBM 3590, "R" for STK 9840.
.TP
.I native_capacity
in Mbytes.
.TP
.I media_cost
in Swiss Francs.
.LP
Only
.I model
is mandatory. When a pointer to an alphanumeric field is NULL or a numeric field
value is negative or zero, the field is not modified.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named model does not exist.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I model
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I model
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXMODELLEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B EVMGRNACT
Volume manager is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.B vmgr_entermodel(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
