.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgr_tpmounted.man,v $ $Revision: 1.3 $ $Date: 2002/02/07 06:57:17 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGR_TPMOUNTED 3 "$Date: 2002/02/07 06:57:17 $" CASTOR "vmgr Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vmgr_tpmounted \- update tape volume access time/count in the CASTOR Volume Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "vmgr_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vmgr_tpmounted (const char *" vid ,
.BI "int " mode ,
.BI "int " jid )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgr_tpmounted
updates the tape volume access time/count in the CASTOR Volume Manager.
.TP
.I vid
is the volume visual identifier of the tape.
It must be at most CA_MAXVIDLEN characters long.
.TP
.I mode
may be either
.B WRITE_ENABLE
or
.BR WRITE_DISABLE .
.TP
.I jid
is the process id of the client program.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named volume does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
The effective user ID of the requestor does not match the owner ID of the tape
pool this tape belongs to and the requestor is not super-user.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I vid
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I vid
exceeds
.B CA_MAXVIDLEN
or bad parameter value.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B EVMGRNACT
Volume manager is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR vmgr_gettape(3) ,
.B vmgr_querytape(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
