.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgr_enterpool.man,v $ $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:56 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGR_ENTERPOOL 3 "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:56 $" CASTOR "vmgr Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vmgr_enterpool \- define a new tape pool in the CASTOR Volume Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "vmgr_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vmgr_enterpool (const char *" pool_name ,
.BI "uid_t " pool_user ,
.BI "gid_t " pool_group )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgr_enterpool
defines a new tape pool in the CASTOR Volume Manager.
.TP
.I pool_name
is the name of the tape pool.
It must be at most CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN characters long.
.TP
.I pool_user
if greater than zero, the tape pool is restricted to this user uid.
.TP
.I pool_group
if greater than zero, the tape pool is restricted to this group gid.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EFAULT
.I pool_name
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The named pool exists already.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I pool_name
exceeds CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The volume manager database is full.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B EVMGRNACT
Volume manager is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR vmgr_deletepool(3) ,
.B vmgr_modifypool(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
