.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgr_queryweight.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2005/03/17 10:23:36 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2001 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGR_QUERYWEIGHT 3 "$Date: 2005/03/17 10:23:36 $" CASTOR "vmgr Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vmgr_queryweight\- query about the weight and delta of a given dgn in the CASTOR Volume Manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "vmgr_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vmgr_queryweight (const char *" dgn,
.BI "int *" weight , 
.BI "int *" delta )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgr_queryweight
queries about the weight of a given dgn in the CASTOR Volume Manager
.TP
.I dgn
is the Device Group name.
It must be at most CA_MAXDGNLEN characters long.
.TP
.I weight
is a pointer where we want to get the weight of the specified to the dgn.
.TP
.I delta
is a pointer where we want the value of delta to be stored
.LP
All parameters are mandatory.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named dgn does not exist.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I dgn
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I dgn
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXDGNLEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B EVMGRNACT
Volume manager is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.B vmgrlistweight(2)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
