.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vmgr_gettape.man,v $ $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2000/02/15 16:31:15 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH VMGR_GETTAPE 3 "$Date: 2000/02/15 16:31:15 $" CASTOR "vmgr Library Functions"
.SH NAME
vmgr_gettape \- get a tape volume to store a given amount of data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "vmgr_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vmgr_gettape (const char *" poolname ,
.BI "u_signed64 " Size ,
.BI "const char *" Condition ,
.BI "char *" vid ,
.BI "char *" vsn ,
.BI "char *" dgn ,
.BI "char *" density ,
.BI "char *" lbltype ,
.BI "int *" fseq ,
.BI "unsigned int *" blockid )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vmgr_gettape
gets a tape volume to store a given amount of data.
The tape status is changed to TAPE_BUSY.
.TP
.I poolname
specifies the name of the pool from which the cartridge should be taken.
If the pointer is NULL, the volume is taken from the default pool.
.TP
.I Size
Amount of data to be stored (in bytes).
.TP
.I Condition
Optional SQL SELECT statement to be used to choose the cartridge.
.TP
.I vid
points at a buffer to receive the volume visual identifier of the tape.
The buffer must be at least CA_MAXVIDLEN+1 characters long.
.TP
.I vsn
points at a buffer to receive the magnetically recorded volume serial number of
the tape.
The buffer must be at least CA_MAXVSNLEN+1 characters long.
.TP
.I dgn
points at a buffer to receive the device group name corresponding to
the tape.
The buffer must be at least CA_MAXDGNLEN+1 characters long.
.TP
.I density
points at a buffer to receive the alphanumeric density corresponding to
the tape.
The buffer must be at least CA_MAXDENLEN+1 characters long.
.TP
.I lbltype
points at a buffer to receive the label type corresponding to the tape.
The buffer must be at least 3 characters long.
.LP
Only
.I vid
and
.I Size
are mandatory. When a pointer to a field is NULL, the field value is not returned.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named pool does not exist.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I vid
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I vid
exceeds
.B CA_MAXVIDLEN
or
.I Size
is <= 0.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
No volume with enough free space.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B EVMGRNACT
Volume manager is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.B vmgr_updatetape(3)
