.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rtcpclientd.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2005/03/10 10:09:30 $ CERN CERN IT-PDP/DM Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2005 by CERN IT-ADC
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.nh
.TH RTCPD 1 "$Date: 2005/03/10 10:09:30 $" CASTOR "RTCOPY client daemon"
.SH NAME
rtcpclientd \- CASTOR remote tape copy client daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rtcpclientd
[
.BI \-d
] [
.BI \-f " facility-name"
] [
.BI \-g " group-name"
] [
.BI \-p " port-number"
] [
.BI \-u " user-name"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBrtcpclientd\fP is part of the CASTOR stager framework where it is the common
VDQM, VMGR and tape mover client for all tape requests triggered by the stager.
It runs as a central service interfacing the stager catalog database from which
it periodically retrieves new tape requests to be processed. The \fBrtcpclientd\fP
daemon forks a program called \fBmigrator\fP for all running tape migration requests
and \fBrecaller\fP for all running tape recall requests. This means that there at
most can be as many such child processes as there are available tape drives.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBrtcpclientd\fP takes the following options (all optional)
.TP
.BI \-d
switch to run the daemon in foreground debug mode
.TP
.BI \-f " facility-name"
specifies the DLF facility name that the daemon should use for logging. The
facility must have been previously created in DLF. The default facility name
is
.B rtcpcld
.TP
.BI \-g " group-name"
the user group under which the daemon should run. The \fBrtcpclientd\fP daemon
always run under a user/group different from root. The reason for this is
that the tape mover by default does not accept tape requests from root. The
default group name is
.B st
.TP
.BI \-p " port-number"
is the port number to used for the port number that the daemon will use
when listening for connections from the tape movers. Default is to use
the same port number (5003) as the tape mover uses for receiving requests from VDQM.
The default is OK as long as \fBrtcpclientd\fP does not run on the same host
as the tape mover.
.TP
.BI \-u " user-name"
the user login name under which the daemon should run. The \fBrtcpclientd\fP daemon
always run under a user/group different from root. The reason for this is
that the tape mover by default does not accept tape requests from root. The
default user login name is
.B stage

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following configuration variables in "/etc/castor/castor.conf" are relevant for
the running of the \fBrtcpclientd\fP service:
.PP
.B OraCnvSvc user
\- Oracle login name to be used when accessing the catalog conversion services
.PP
.B OraCnvSvc passwd
\- Oracle password to be used when accessing the catalog conversion services
.PP
.B OraCnvSvc dbName
\- Oracle (TNS) instance name to be used when accessing the catalog conversion services
.PP
.B OraStagerSvc user
\- Oracle login name to be used when accessing the catalog stager service.
This is usually the same as for the
.B OraCnvSvc
above.
.PP
.B OraStagerSvc passwd
\- Oracle password to be used when accessing the catalog stager service
This is usually the same as for the
.B OraCnvSvc
above.
.PP
.B OraStagerSvc dbName
\- Oracle (TNS) instance name to be used when accessing the catalog stager service
This is usually the same as for the
.B OraCnvSvc
above.
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGDEBUG
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for debug messages
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGUSAGE
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for usage (tracing) messages
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGSYSTEM
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for normal system info messages
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGERROR
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for warning messages
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGERROR
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for error messages
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGALERT
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for alert messages (fully or partially fatal for the service)
.PP
.B rtcpcld LOGSECURITY
\- specifies the DLF log-destinations for failed authentications

.SH FILES
.TP 1.2i
.B /etc/castor/castor.conf
CASTOR configuration file

.SH SEE ALSO
.BI rtcpd(1castor),
.BI dlf(1castor)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
