.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH DUMPTP 1 "$Date: 2009/07/31 14:07:48 $" CASTOR "CASTOR"
.SH NAME
dumptp \- dump the contents of a tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "dumptp VID [OPTIONS]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dumptp
dumps the selected contents of a tape to standard output.
.P
This command gives privileged users direct access to the tape system.
.P
The tape whose contents is to dumped is specified by the \fBVID\fP argument.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-debug
Turns on the printing of debug information.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Prints the usage message.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-server server
Specifies the tape server to be used, therefore overriding the drive scheduling
of the VDQM.  If this option is not set then the VDQM will allocate the first
free drive it finds that is suitable for reading the tape.
.TP
\fB\-B, \-\-maxbytes n
The number of bytes per block to be dumped. This should be an unsigned integer
greater than or equal to 0, where 0 means all bytes.  The default is 320.
.TP
\fB\-b, \-\-blksize n
The maximum block size in bytes.  This should be an unsigned integer greater
than 0.  The default is 65536.
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-fromfile seq
The tape file sequence number to start from.  This should be an unsigned
integer greater than 0.  The default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-g, \-\-maxfiles n
The number of files to be dumped.  This should be an unsigned integer greater
than or equal to 0, where 0 means all files.  The default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-fromblock block
Start block per file.  This should be an unsigned integer greater than 0.  The
default is 1.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-toblock block
End block per file.  This should be an unsigned integer greater than 0. The
default is 1.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following example dumps the contents of the tape with the VID \fBI10553\fP.
.P
dumptp I10553


.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
