.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: vdqm_Disconnect.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2000/08/09 09:55:21 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM O.Barring
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\"
.TH VDQM_DISCONNECT 3 "$Date: 2000/08/09 09:55:21 $" "CASTOR" "VDQM Library Functions"
.SH NAME
.PP
vdqm_Disconnect \- disconnect from the VDQM server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fB#include "Castor_limits.h"\fR
.br
\fB#include "osdep.h"\fR
.br
\fB#include "net.h"\fR
.br
\fB#include "vdqm_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int vdqm_Disconnect ("
.br
.BI "                     vdqmnw_t **" nw );
.SH PARAMETERS
.I nw
\- points to a pointer to a structure containing internal VDQM API network 
information set by a prior call to
.B vdqm_Connect(3).

.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vdqm_Disconnect
disconnects a connection opened with
.B vdqm_Connect(3)
VDQM API library call.

All VDQM API library functions will call
.B vdqm_Disconnect
and
.B vdqm_Connect(3)
internally in case the connection is not yet established. It is therefore
not necessary to directly call
.B vdqm_Disconnect
from an application. This is also the preferred usage since in its current
implementation the VDQM server does not allow multiple API calls to re-use
the same connection.

.SH EXAMPLE
Here follows an example showing how to open a connection to the VDQM server,
issue an API call and thereafter close the connection.
.P
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <Castor_limits.h>
#include <serrno.h>
#include <osdep.h>
#include <net.h>
#include <vdqm_api.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv) {
    int rc;
    vdqmnw_t **nw = NULL;

    rc = \fBvdqm_Connect\fP(nw);
    if ( rc == -1 ) {
        fprintf(stderr,"vdqm_Connect(): %s\\n",sstrerror(serrno));
        exit(1);
    }
    /* ...                                  */
    /* ... Call a VDQM API library function */
    /* ...                                  */

    /* Close the connection */
    rc = \fBvdqm_Disconnect\fP(nw); 
    if ( rc == -1 ) {
        fprintf(stderr,"vdqm_Disconnect(): %s\\n",sstrerror(serrno));
        exit(1);
    }
    exit(0);
}
.fi

.SH RETURN VALUES
.PP
On successful completion, the
.B vdqm_Connect
function returns 0. Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
.B serrno
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
If the
.B vdqm_Connect
function fails,
.B serrno
may be set to one of the following values:
.TP
.B SECOMERR
A network library call failed when trying close the connection
with the VDQM server.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The nw parameter has not been returned by a successful call to
.B vdqm_Connect(3).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vdqm_Connect(3) , 
