.\"
.\" $Id: rfdir.man,v 1.6 2006/07/05 14:36:18 riojac3 Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)rfdir.man	1.2 09/21/98     CERN IT-PDP/DM Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 1998-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFDIR 1 "$Date: 2006/07/05 14:36:18 $" CASTOR "Rfio User Commands"
.SH NAME
rfdir \- Remote directory list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfdir
.IR directory
.br
.B rfdir
.IR filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "\fLrfdir\fR"
The remote directory list program provides an interface to the
.B shift
remote file I/O daemon (rfiod) for listing a remote directory or file.
The
.IR filename
or
.IR directory
argument is either a remote file name of the form:
.IP
.IB hostname : path
.LP
or a local file name (not containing the :/ character combination).
The output from the 
.BR rfdir 
command is a full directory listing 
similar to that of the
.BR "ls -al"
command for listing local files or directories.
.LP

For castor files we can use as remote file the new Turl sintax, there are two way to specify it:
.LP
 'rfio://[stagehost][:port]/?[svcClass=MySvcClass&][castorVersion=MyCastorVersion&]path=/castor/cern.ch/user/n/nobody/Myfile' 
.LP
.B or
.LP
 'rfio://[stagehost][:port]/[/castor/cern.ch/user/n/nobody/file][?[svcClass=MySvcClass&][castorVersion=MyCastorVersion]]'
.LP
If there is the pamameter "path", it must be the last one. The order of the other option is not taken into account.
.LP
The path must be specified as path in the parameters or before the parameters.
Of course the old Rfio sintax (rfio://[diskserver][:port]/path) is still valid.
.LP

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rcp(1), 
.BR rfiod(1)
.SH "NOTES"
.B rfdir
does not support regular expressions
.BR (regexp(5)) 
in the
.IR diretory
or
.IR filename
argument.
.LP
The date and time displayed by
.B rfdir
are for the last modification to the file.
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
