.\"
.\" $Id: rfio_readdir.man,v 1.4 2001/05/13 07:40:02 jdurand Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rfio_readdir.man,v $ $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2001/05/13 07:40:02 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFIO_READDIR 3 "$Date: 2001/05/13 07:40:02 $" CASTOR "Rfio Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rfio_readdir \- read directory opened by
.B rfio_opendir
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.br
\fB#include "rfio_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "struct dirent *rfio_readdir (RDIR *" dirp ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rfio_readdir
reads the directory opened by
.B rfio_opendir
. This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current directory
entry.
.TP
.I dirp
specifies the pointer value returned by
.BR rfio_opendir .
.SH NOTES
Only the fields d_name, d_reclen and on some platforms d_namlen are filled.
For CASTOR directories, a multi-threaded application will need to initialize itself the Cthread (CASTOR Thread Interface) library ; this is done by including "shift/Cthread_api.h" and calling the function Cthread_init() at the beginning. Otherwise accessing CASTOR directories will not be thread-safe. See \fBCthread\fP(3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current directory
entry if the operation was successful or NULL if the end of the directory was
reached or if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EBADF
File descriptor in DIR structure is invalid.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I dirp
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rfio_closedir(3) ,
.BR rfio_opendir(3) ,
.BR rfio_rewinddir(3) ,
.B dirent
.SH AUTHOR
Olof Barring, CERN-IT Division CH-1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland
(olof.barring@cern.ch)
