.\"
.\" $Id: rfiod.man,v 1.5 2009/08/18 09:43:01 waldron Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1990-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFIOD 1 "$Date: 2009/08/18 09:43:01 $" CASTOR "Rfio Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
rfiod\- Remote file access daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfiod [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "\fLrfiod\fR"
.IX  tcp
rfiod start the daemon handling remote file access requests.
This command is usually executed at system startup time
.RB ( /etc/rc.local ).
.SH OPTIONS
Recommended options are:
.B \-sl.
.TP
.B \-d
Turn on printing of debug messages. Default output device is stderr.
.TP
.BI \-f " filename"
Output filename for error, logging and debugging messages.
Normal error messages are sent to syslog unless otherwise specified.
Two filenames are special : "stderr", which will send messages to standard
error and "syslog" which will send to syslog.
.TP
.B \-l
Turn on printing of log messages. Default output device is in
.BR /var/log/castor/rfiod.log .
.TP
.BI \-p " port"
Specify a network port for the service to listen on. If this option
is not given the value RFIO_PORT or SRFIO_PORT defined in rfio_constants.h
will be used for non-secure and secure daemons respectively.
.TP
.B \-s
Turn on Standalone mode.
This option should always be set when rfiod is not started by inetd.
.TP
.B \-t
Turn on single threaded mode. Useful for debugging as no processes
are created.
.TP
.B \-T " timeout"
Timeout on the select() system call - default is 1 second. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-M " umask"
Forced server umask. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-D " directory"
Set current working directory.
.TP
.B \-n
Do not detach from controlling terminal. Used only if \-d option is not set.
.TP
.B \-S " socket_parent"
Assuming a listening socket was creating beforehand, do not close this socket when daemonizing. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-P " socket_parent_port"
Assuming a listening socket was creating beforehand, do not try to bind to standard port, but takes over listening on this given port. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-1
Accept a single connection and exit. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-U
Ignore uid/gid from the protocol. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-Z " subrequest_id"
Use hooks at open/close/first_byte_writen to commit in the CASTOR2 databases changes to the file. This option should not be used interactively.
.TP
.B \-u " uid"
User id of the client.This option should be present when rfiod runs in secure mode.
.TP
.B \-g " gid"
Group id of the client.This option should be present when rfiod runs in secure mode.
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
.HP
/usr/local/bin/rfiod -sl
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR syslog(8) ,
.B tcp(7)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
