.\"
.\" $Id: rfio_readlink.man,v 1.2 2001/09/26 09:13:53 jdurand Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: rfio_readlink.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:53 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2001 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFIO_READLINK 3 "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:53 $" CASTOR "Rfio Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rfio_readlink \- get the content of a symbolic link
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "rfio_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int rfio_readlink (const char *" path ,
.BI "char *" buf ,
.BI "int " length )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rfio_readlink
gets the content of the symbolic link identified by
.IR path .
.LP
.I buf
content is not null terminated.
.br
Symbolic link content can be truncated to
.I length
if
.I buf
is too small.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns the count of bytes placed in
.I buf
if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation failed.
In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient memory.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the 
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
or
.I buf
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the 
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I path
is not a symbolic link or
.I length
is not positive.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a path component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B SEOPNOTSUP
Not supported on Windows.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR rfio_symlink(3) ,
.BR rfio_unlink(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
