.\"
.\" $Id: rfio_ftell.man,v 1.4 2007/09/10 13:40:52 obarring Exp $
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT-DS-HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFIO_FTELL 3 "$Date: 2007/09/10 13:40:52 $" CASTOR "Rfio Library Functions"
.SH NAME
rfio_ftell \- tells the position in a stream
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "rfio_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "long rfio_ftell (FILE *" fp ");"
.sp
Under Linux, for large files:
.br
.B #define _LARGEFILE64_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "rfio_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "off64_t rfio_ftello64 (FILE *" fp ");"
.br
.sp
For large files, under other systems:
.br
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "rfio_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "off64_t rfio_ftello64 (FILE *" fp ");"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rfio_ftell
returns the current position in the file stream pointed by 
.IR fp . 
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns the position if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EBADF
.I fp
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SETIMEDOUT
Timed out.
.TP
.B SEBADVERSION
Version ID mismatch.
.TP
.B SEINTERNAL
Internal error.
.TP
.B SECONNDROP
Connection closed by remote end.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.SH MULTI-THREAD APPLICATION USAGE
When calling RFIO from a multi-threaded application, it is first necessary to
initialize thread-specific storage and serialization objects by a call to
\fBCthread_init()\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rfio_fopen(3) , Cthread(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>

