.\"
.\" $Id: rfrm.man,v 1.5 2006/07/05 14:36:18 riojac3 Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)rfrm.man	1.1 09/07/98     CERN IT-PDP/DM Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 by CERN/IT/PDP
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RFRM l "09/07/98"
.SH NAME
rfrm \- remove remote files and directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rfrm
.IR filename...
.br
.B rfrm
[
.BI -r
]
.IR directory...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "\fLrfrm\fR"
.B rfrm
provides an interface to the
.B shift
remote file I/O daemon (rfiod) for removing entries for one or more files 
from a directory.
.LP
If
.IR filename
is a symbolic link, the link will be removed, but the file or directory
to which it refers will not be deleted.
.LP
The
.IR filename
or
.IR directory
argument is either a remote path name of the form:
.IP
.IB hostname : path
.LP
or a local path name (not containing the :/ character combination).

.LP
For castor files we can use as remote file the new Turl sintax, there are two way to specify it:
.LP
 'rfio://[stagehost][:port]/?[svcClass=MySvcClass&][castorVersion=MyCastorVersion&]path=/castor/cern.ch/user/n/nobody/Myfile' 
.LP
.B or
.LP
 'rfio://[stagehost][:port]/[/castor/cern.ch/user/n/nobody/file][?[svcClass=MySvcClass&][castorVersion=MyCastorVersion]]'
.LP
If there is the pamameter "path", it must be the last one. The order of the other option is not taken into account.
.LP
The path must be specified as path in the parameters or before the parameters.
Of course the old Rfio sintax (rfio://[diskserver][:port]/path) is still valid.
.LP

.SH "OPTIONS"
The following options apply to
.B rfrm:
.TP
.BI \-r
Recursively remove directories and subdirectories in the argument list. The
directory will be emptied of files and removed. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rm(1),
.BR rfiod(l)
.SH "NOTES"
Although
.B rfrm
supports a list of file names or directories it does not support regular
expressions
.BR (regexp(5)). 
For instance,
.IP
.BR "rfrm host:/a/b/c\e\(**"
.LP
will not work.
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
