.lf 8 stagerd.man
.TH stagerd 8 "$Date: 2009/07/23 12:18:45 $" CASTOR "stager"
.SH NAME
stagerd \- start the CASTOR Stager daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stagerd
[
.BI -f
]
[
.BI -h
]
[
.BI -c " <config-file>"
]
[
.BI -m
]
[
.BI -J
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -P
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -S
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -B
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -Q
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -E
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -j
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -G
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
[
.BI -C
.BI <nb\ threads>
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B stagerd
command starts the CASTOR stager daemon,
which is the main daemon responsible for user requests processing.
.LP

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-f,\ \-\-foreground
runs in foreground mode (no daemonization).
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
displays command usage help.
.TP
.BI \-c,\ \-\-config\ <config-file>
specifies the location of the configuration file to use. The default value
is /etc/castor/castor.conf.
.TP
.BI \-m,\ \-\-metrics
enables internal metrics collection, usually into \fI/var/spool/castor/stagerd.xml\fR.
.TP
.BI \-J,\ \-\-Jthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for user job oriented requests. Default is 10.
.TP
.BI \-P,\ \-\-Pthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for prestage/repack requests. Default is 6.
.TP
.BI \-S,\ \-\-Sthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for stager specific requests (putDone, Rm, setGCWeight). Default is 4.
.TP
.BI \-B,\ \-\-Bthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for handling bulk requests in bulk (currently only abort). Default is 3.
.P
.BI \-Q,\ \-\-Qthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for user query requests. Default is 6.
.TP
.BI \-E,\ \-\-Ethreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for handling user errors. Default is 2.
.TP
.BI \-j,\ \-\-jthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for internal job oriented requests. Default is 6
.TP
.BI \-G,\ \-\-Gthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for internal garbage collection and synchronization. Default is 4.
.TP
.BI \-C,\ \-\-Cthreads\ <nb\ threads>
specifies the number of threads for dumping the logs of the database cleaning jobs. Default is 1. 

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>





