.TH DELETEDISKCOPY 1 "2011" CASTOR "stager catalog administrative commands"
.SH NAME
deletediskcopy \- triggers garbage collection of specific disk copies or cleans the stager for
disk copies that were lost.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B deletediskcopy
[
.BI -h, 
.BI --help
]
[
.BI -f, 
.BI --force
]
[
.BI -d,
.BI --dry-run
]
.BI fullPhysicalPath [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B deletediskcopy
triggers garbage collection of the given disk copies or deletes the
metadata associated with disk copies when they had been lost.
The stager log will contain the performed action and the
disk copy metadata for each provided entry.

In case some of the files that were lost have no tapecopy, they will also
be removed from the name server, otherwise a restaging (either from tape
or from another pool) will take place. The result includes the action taken
for each file, and at the end a summary of all lost files grouped by user id is given.
.TP
.BI \-h,
.BI \-\-help
Get usage information
.TP
.BI \-f,
.BI \-\-force
Force deletion of all metadata for the given disk copies, which are deemed lost.
The default (without -f) is a normal garbage collection in case it does not cause a data loss.
.TP
.BI \-d,
.BI \-\-dry-run
Prints everything as if the commands are really executed, but no change is effectively
committed. In this case the log is not filled.
.TP
.BI fullPhysicalPath [...]
The full path (in the form host:/mountpoint/path/fileid@nameserver.diskcopyid) of the disk copies that are to be deleted. This is the same format returned by diskserver_qry, so that
those commands may be chained.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW

# deletediskcopy -f `diskserver_qry lxc2dev2d1.cern.ch | awk '{print $2}'`
incorrect/incomplete value found as argument, ignoring Physical
1684504 dropped from disk pool, restaging
1508591 dropped from disk pool, restaging
1441841 dropped from disk pool, restaging
1506925 dropped LAST COPY from stager, file is LOST
1447383 dropped LAST COPY from stager, file is LOST
1684549 dropped from disk pool, restaging
...
The following file(s) have been permanently removed:
--- owned by user itglp :
          5001069762 -rw-r--r--   1 itglp    c3                     1114 Oct 25 10:44 AD 12005d9d /castor/cern.ch/dev/i/itglp/notape/lxc2dev2_919519c4-d5cb-4676-9943-074a6f73efd9
          5001069763 -rw-r--r--   1 itglp    c3                     1114 Oct 25 10:50 AD 12005d9d /castor/cern.ch/dev/i/itglp/notape/lxc2dev2_8846f101-9711-4e8b-84ff-e40299b6661c
...

.SH NOTES
This command requires database client access to the stager catalog and CUPV admin privileges
in the namespace in order to perform the required actions for lost files.
Configuration for the database accesses is taken from castor.conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adminMultiInstance(1castor)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
