.TH ENTERFILECLASS 1 "2011" CASTOR "stager catalog administrative commands"
.SH NAME
enterfileclass \- enter new file classes in the stager catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B enterfileclass
[
.BI -h
]
[
.BI -a
]
[
.BI -f
]
[
.BI <fileClassName>
[:...]
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B enterfileclass
enters a new file class definition in the CASTOR stager catalog, taking the data from the nameserver database
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
Get usage information
.TP
.BI \-a,\ \-\-all
Enter all fileclasses found in the nameserver into the stager catalog.
.TP
.BI \-f,\ \-\-force
Force updates of existing file classes rather than ignoring them.
.TP
.BI <fileClassName>
name of a file classes to enter. Several names can be given, colon separated. Note that
no name should be given if -a/--all is used.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
# enterFileClass largeuser:temp
inserted largeuser successfully
inserted temp successfully

# enterFileClass -a
Ignoring fileClass largeuser as it already exists in the stager DB
Ignoring fileClass temp as it already exists in the stager DB
inserted test2 successfully

# enterFileClass -a -f
largeuser already existed in the stager DB. Updated successfully
temp already existed in the stager DB. Updated successfully
test2 already existed in the stager DB. Updated successfully

# enterfileclass nonexisting:mistyped:test2
Ignoring fileClass test2 as it already exists in the stager DB
WARNING : some fileclasses have been ignored as they were not found in the nameserver : nonexisting, mistyped

.SH NOTES
This command requires database client access to the stager catalog and nameserver DBs.
Configuration for the database accesses is taken from castor.conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deletefileclass,
.BR printfileclass,
.BR entersvcclass,
.BR enterdiskpool,
.BR entertapepool,
.BR adminMultiInstance

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
