.\" ******************************************************************************
.\"                      gcAllFS
.\"
.\" This file is part of the Castor project.
.\" See http://castor.web.cern.ch/castor
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.\"
.\" @(.\")$RCSfile: gcAllFS.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Release$ $Date: 2005/09/22 14:22:58 $ $Author: sponcec3 $
.\"
.\" man page for the gcAllFS command
.\"
.\" @author Castor Dev team, castor-dev@cern.ch
.\" *****************************************************************************/
.TH GCALLFS 1 "$Date: 2005/09/22 14:22:58 $" CASTOR "Runs garbage collection on all filesystems"
.SH NAME
gcAllFS \- Runs garbage collection on all filesystems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gcAllFS
[
.BI -h, 
.BI --help
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gcAllFS
Runs garbage collection on all filesystems. This should only be used
when the GC trigger is not working properly.

.TP
.BI \-h,
.BI \-\-help
Get usage information
.SH NOTES
This command connects directly to the stager database through
the perl DBI interface to ORACLE. Thus it can only run on
a machine providing it.
Configuration for the database access is taken from castor.conf.
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
