.TH MODIFYSVCCLASS 1 "2011" CASTOR "stager catalogue administrative commands"
.SH NAME
modifysvcclass \- modify an existing service class in the stager catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modifysvcclass
[
.BI -h
]
[
.BI --nbdrives
<nbDrives>
]
[
.BI --defaultfilesize
<defaultFileSize>
]
[
.BI --maxreplicanb 
<maxReplicaNb>
]
[
.BI --failjobswhennospace 
<bool>
]
[
.BI --disk1behavior 
<bool>
]
[
.BI --forcedfileclass 
<forcedFileClass>
]
[
.BI --replicateonclose 
<bool>
]
[
.BI --gcpolicy 
<gcPolicyName>
]
[
.BI --migratorpolicy 
<migratorPolicy>
]
[
.BI --streampolicy 
<streamPolicy>
]
[
.BI --recallerpolicy 
<recallerPolicy>
]
[
.BI --adddiskpools 
<diskPoolName>:[...]
]
[
.BI --removediskpools 
<diskPoolName>:[...]
]
[
.BI --addtapepools 
<tapePoolName>[:...]
]
[
.BI --removetapepools 
<tapePoolName>[:...]
]
<svcClassName>


.SH DESCRIPTION
.B modifysvcclass
modifies an existing service class in the CASTOR stager catalog
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
Get usage information
.TP
.BI \-\-nbdrives <nbDrives>
If given, modifies the number of tape drives this service class is allowed to use concurrently
for migration.
.TP
.BI \-\-defaultfilesize <defaultFileSize>
If given, modifies the default file size allocation for write requests not specifying any filesize.
.TP
.BI \-\-maxreplicanb <maxReplicaNb>
If given, modifies the maximum number of disk resident replicas for a given CASTOR file
in this service class.
.TP
.BI \-\-failjobswhennospace <boolean value>
If given, modifies whether jobs requesting new space are failed when the pool(s) connected
with this service class is(are) full. Example of supported values are yes/no, y/n, true/false, t/f, 1/0.
.TP
.BI \-\-disk1behavior <boolean value>
If given, modifies whether this service class has Disk1 behavior, which means that garbage
collection is disabled and the flag FailJobsWhenNoSpace is set to yes.
Example of supported values are yes/no, y/n, true/false, t/f, 1/0.
.TP
.BI \-\-forcedfileclass <forcedFileClassName>
If given, modifies the forced file class of files written to this service class to the given value.
The forced file class overrides the file class that the user specifies. This parameter allows
specifying for this service class any TapeN retention policy, where N is the number of
tape copies of the forced file class.
In order to disable the forcing, just provide an empty class name. Do not for get the quotes
so that the shell sees that empty argument
.TP
.BI \-\-replicateonclose <boolean value>
If given, enables or disables replication on close is enabled for this service class.
When enabled, once a file is created and finalized/closed it will be replicated
so that MaxReplicaNb copies exist in the pool where the file resides.
Example of supported values are yes/no, y/n, true/false, t/f, 1/0.
Note: this functionality will not rebalance the number copies in the pool in response to
diskservers which are no longer in production!
.TP
.BI \-\-gcpolicy <gcPolicyName>
If given, modifies the name of the garbage collection policy to be used for this service class.
This value is irrelevant if Disk1Behavior is set to yes.
.TP
.BI \-\-migratorpolicy <migratorPolicy>
If given, modifies the name of the migrator policy to be used for this service class.
.TP
.BI \-\-streampolicy <streamPolicy>
If given, modifies the name of the stream policy to be used for this service class. The policy
will be used to determine the number of streams that should be running based on the
number of files and volume of data that should be written too tape.
.TP
.BI \-\-recallerpolicy <recallerPolicy>
If given, modifies the name of the recaller policy to be used for this service class.
.TP
.BI \-\-adddiskpools <diskPool1:diskPool2:...>
If given, adds the given disk pools to the set that this service class is allowed to use.
More than one disk pool can be specified, colon separated. All specified disk
pools must already exist.
.TP
.BI \-\-removediskpools <diskPool1:diskPool2:...>
If given, removes the given disk pools from the set that this service class is allowed to use.
More than one disk pool can be specified, colon separated. All specified disk
pools must already exist.
.TP
.BI \-\-addtapepools <tapePool1:tapePool2:...>
If given, adds the given tape pools to the set that this service class is allowed to use.
More than one tape pool can be specified, colon separated. All specified tape
pools must already exist.
.TP
.BI \-\-removetapepools <tapePool1:tapePool2:...>
If given, removes the given tape pools from the set that this service class is allowed to use.
More than one tape pool can be specified, colon separated. All specified tape
pools must already exist.
.TP
.BI <svcClassName>
name of the service class to modify.

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
#printsvcclass test
NAME DEFAULTFILESIZE NBDRIVES FAILJOBSWHENNOSPACE MAXREPLICANB FORCEDFILECLASS REPLICATEONCLOSE DISK1BEHAVIOR STREAMPOLICY GCPOLICY MIGRATORPOLICY RECALLERPOLICY     DISKPOOLS    TAPEPOOLS           ID
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
test               1        0                True            1               -            False         False            -        -              -              - default,extra stager_dev01     91382934

# modifysvcclass --maxreplicanb 2 --gcpolicy dropall --forcedfileclass temp --removediskpools default test
modified service class test successfully

# printsvcclass test
NAME DEFAULTFILESIZE NBDRIVES FAILJOBSWHENNOSPACE MAXREPLICANB FORCEDFILECLASS REPLICATEONCLOSE DISK1BEHAVIOR STREAMPOLICY GCPOLICY MIGRATORPOLICY RECALLERPOLICY DISKPOOLS    TAPEPOOLS           ID
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
test               1        0                True            2            temp            False         False            -  dropall              -              -     extra stager_dev01     91382934

# modifysvcclass --forcedfileclass '' --adddiskpools default test
modified service class test successfully

# printsvcclass test
NAME DEFAULTFILESIZE NBDRIVES FAILJOBSWHENNOSPACE MAXREPLICANB FORCEDFILECLASS REPLICATEONCLOSE DISK1BEHAVIOR STREAMPOLICY GCPOLICY MIGRATORPOLICY RECALLERPOLICY     DISKPOOLS    TAPEPOOLS           ID
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
test               1        0                True            2               -            False         False            -  dropall              -              - default,extra stager_dev01     91382934

.SH NOTES
This command requires database client access to the stager catalog and nameserver DBs.
Configuration for the database accesses is taken from castor.conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR deletesvcclass,
.BR entersvcclass,
.BR printsvcclass,
.BR modifytapepool,
.BR adminMultiInstance

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
