.TH MODIFYRECALLUSER 1 "2011" CASTOR "stager catalog administrative commands"
.SH NAME
modifyrecalluser \- modify the mapping of a recall user in the stager catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B modifyrecalluser
[
.BI -h
]
(<userName>|<uid>)
.BI <newRecallGroup>

.B modifyrecalluser
[
.BI -h
]
(<userName>|<uid>)?:(<groupName>|<gid>)
.BI <newRecallGroup>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B modifyrecalluser
modifies the mapping of a recall user in the CASTOR stager catalog.

.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
Get usage information
.TP
.BI <userName>
name of the user to create. In case it is omitted, the whole group will be considered. Note that the user must exist on the local host and that the corresponding uid will be used
.TP
.BI <uid>
id of the user to create. In case it is omitted, the whole group will be considered
.TP
.BI <groupName>
name of a group the user belongs to. In case it is omitted but the user is given, the primary group of the user as defined on the local host will be used. Note that the group must exist on the local host and that the corresponding gid will be used
.TP
.BI <gid>
id of a group the user belongs to. In case it is omitted but the user is given, the primary group of the user as defined on the local host will be used
.TP
.BI <newRecallGroup>
name of the new recall group for the specified user

.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CW
# printrecalluser 
    USER/GROUP (UID/GID) RECALLGROUP LASTEDITOR          LASTEDITION
--------------------------------------------------------------------
             :zp (:1307)    newgroup       root 25-Jun-2012 17:11:00
   itglp:c3 (22103:1028)     default       root 26-Jun-2012 11:09:02
sponcec3:c3 (14493:1028)     default       root 26-Jun-2012 11:09:06
   <123>:<456> (123:456)    newgroup       root 26-Jun-2012 11:46:33

# modifyrecalluser itglp newgroup
modified recall user successfully

# modifyrecalluser :zp default 
modified recall user successfully

# printrecalluser 
    USER/GROUP (UID/GID) RECALLGROUP LASTEDITOR          LASTEDITION
--------------------------------------------------------------------
             :zp (:1307)     default       root 26-Jun-2012 11:51:36
   itglp:c3 (22103:1028)    newgroup       root 26-Jun-2012 11:51:15
sponcec3:c3 (14493:1028)     default       root 26-Jun-2012 11:09:06
   <123>:<456> (123:456)    newgroup       root 26-Jun-2012 11:46:33

# modifyrecalluser nonexisting default
Unknown user nonexisting
Usage : /usr/bin/modifyrecalluser [-h|--help] (<userName>|<uid>) <newRecallGroup>
        /usr/bin/modifyrecalluser [-h|--help] (<userName>|<uid>)?:(<groupName>|<gid>) <newRecallGroup>

# modifyrecalluser :c3 default
Could not find the specified RecallUser
Note that you cannot modify several recall users in one go by only specifying their group

# modifyrecalluser :zp nonexisting
RecallGroup nonexisting does not exist in the stager DB
You may want to use enterRecallGroup to create it first

.SH NOTES
This command requires database client access to the stager catalog and nameserver DBs.
Configuration for the database accesses is taken from castor.conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR enterrecalluser
.BR deleterecalluser
.BR printrecalluser
.BR modifymigrationroute
.BR modifyrecallgroup
.BR modifysvcclass
.BR modifytapepool
.BR adminMultiInstance

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
