.\" @(#)$RCSfile: tapetohsm.man,v $ $Revision: 1.4 $ $Date: 2002/03/08 06:48:42 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH TAPETOHSM 1 "$Date: 2002/03/08 06:48:42 $" CASTOR "vmgr Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
tapetohsm \- catalog in the CASTOR Name Server files from a non HSM tape
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tapetohsm
.BI -d " density"
[
.BI -i
] [
.BI -l " lbltype"
] [
.BI -M " hsm_path_name"
] [
.BI -P " poolname"
] [
.BI -q " file_sequence_number"
] [
.BI -s " size"
]
.BI -V " vid"
[
.BI -v " vsn"
]
.BI --li " library"
[
.BI --ml " media_letter"
]
.BI --mo " model"
[
.BI --po " poolname"
] [
.BI --verbose
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tapetohsm
catalogs in the CASTOR Name Server files from a non HSM tape.
.TP
.I density
The list of supported alphanumeric densities can be obtained with
.BR vmgrlistdenmap .
They are for example:
.BR 35G ,
.BR 35GC ,
.B 40G
or
.B 40GC
for DLT cartridges,
.B 10G
or
.B 10GC
for IBM 3590 cartridges,
.B 40G
or
.B 40GC
for IBM 3590K cartridges,
.B 20G
or
.B 20GC
for STK 9840 cassettes,
.B 60G
or
.B 60GC
for STK 9940 cartridges,
.B 100G
or
.B 100GC
for LTO cartridges.
.TP
.I lbltype
may be
.BR al ,
.BR aul ,
.B nl
or
.BR sl .
Default is
.BR al .
.TP
.I vid
is the volume visual identifier.
It must be at most CA_MAXVIDLEN characters long.
.TP
.I vsn
specifies the magnetically recorded volume serial number of the tape.
It must be at most six characters long.
.TP
.I media_letter
is the media identification letter. For example "A", "B" or "C" for SD3 (Redwood),
"J" for IBM 3590, "R" for STK 9840.
.TP
.I library
is the name of the library.
It must be at most CA_MAXTAPELIBLEN characters long.
The list of libraries can be obtained with
.BR vmgrlistlibrary .
.TP
.I model
is the model of cartridge.
It must be at most CA_MAXMODELLEN characters long.
The list of models can be obtained with
.BR vmgrlistmodel .
.TP
.I poolname
is the tape pool name. It must be at most CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN characters long.
The list of pools can be obtained with
.BR vmgrlistpool .
.LP
Only
.IR vid ,
.IR density ,
.I library
and
.I model
are mandatory. The other tape fields can be set later.
The file segment attributes can be given on the command line (one file only)
or in a directive file.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
.ft CW
tapetohsm -V RT0001 -d 20GC -l al --li STK_ACS5 --model 9840 --verbose \\
	-M /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/RT0001.dat -q 1 -s 111111

tapetohsm -V RT0001 -d 20GC -l al --li STK_ACS5 --model 9840 --verbose \\
	-i < tapetohsm.inp
.ft
.fi
where tapetohsm.inp contains:
.nf
.ft CW
-q 1 -s 1111111 -M /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/RT0001/file1
-q 2 -s 2222222 -M /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/RT0001/file2
-q 3 -s 3333333 -M /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/RT0001/file3
.ft
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_creat(3) ,
.BR Cns_setfsize(3) ,
.BR Cns_setsegattrs(3) ,
.BR vmgr_updatetape(3) ,
.B vmgrentertape(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
