.\" @(#)$RCSfile: updateCastorFileName.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2006/01/17 14:07:39 $ CERN IT/ADC Olof Barring
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN IT/ADC
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH UPDATECASTORFILENAME 1 "$Date: 2006/01/17 14:07:39 $" CASTOR "Updates the name of a file in the stager"
.SH NAME
updateCastorFileName \- Updates the best known filename of one or many CastorFiles in the stager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B updateCastorFileName
[
.BI -h, 
.BI --help
]
[
.BI -n, 
.BI --nameserver
nameserver
]
.BI fileId [...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B updateCastorFileName
queries the nameserver for the given files and updates
accordingly the best known filename in the stager database.
It displays on the output the updates that are made to the DB.

.TP 4
.BI \-h,
.BI \-\-help
Get usage information
.TP
.BI \-n,
.BI \-\-nameserver
.BI nameserver
The name server to be used. Take care that this must be
the content of the nsHost column in the stager database.
Otherwise no update will take place.
.TP
.BI fileId\ [...]
The ids of the files that should be updated.

.SH EXAMPLES
.fi
.BI #\ updateCastorFileName\ -n\ lxs5010\ 67030828\ 67031773\ 61312514
.fi
67030828 -> /castor/cern.ch/user/j/jdurand/24235427-4f0b-4748-bc3c-b61671bc17c4
.fi
67031773 -> /castor/cern.ch/user/j/jdurand/b579f2bf-a57b-44e6-88a2-17f765f02c2b
.fi
Server lxs5010 Fileid 61312514, No such file or directory
.fi

.SH NOTES
This command connects directly to the stager database through
the perl DBI interface to ORACLE. Thus it can only run on
a machine providing it.
Configuration for the database access is taken from castor.conf.
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
