.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH VDQMLISTPRIORITY 1 "$Date: 2008/08/13 15:20:36 $" CASTOR "List volume priorities"
.SH NAME
vdqmlistpriority \- list volume priorities
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "vdqmlistpriority [ -a | -l lifespanType | -e ] [ -v ] [ -h ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vdqmlistpriority
lists the volume access priorities within the VDQM database.
The RecallHandler daemon and the tape operator command-line tools send volume
access priorities to the VDQM. A volume access priority sent from the
RecallHandler will exist in the VDQM database for a single-mount of the tape in
question.  A volume access priority sent from the tape operator command-line
tools will by default have an unlimited lifespan within the VDQM database.  The
priority will stay active until it is explicitly removed by the tape operator
command-line tools.
A volume access priority is a quadruple of:
.RS
.P
*
.B VID
.br
Volume visual identifier
.P
*
.B
Access mode
.br
Either read or write
.P
*
.B
Lifespan type
.br
Either single-mount or unlimited
.P
*
.B
Priority number
.br
A positive integer, where 0 is the lowest and default priority
.RE
.P
A volume access priority quadruple is uniquely identified or named by the inner
triplet of VID, access mode and lifespan type.  The priority number of the
quadruple is the value of the volume access priority.  This means a given VID
and access mode can have at most one "single-mount priority" and one "unlimited
priority".  The effective priority in this case would be the unlimited priority.
In other words, unlimited priorities overide single-mount priorities.
.P
Depending on its command-line options,
.B vdqmlistpriority
will display one of the following four types of list:

.RS
.P
* All priorities
.P
* Only priorities that have a single-mount lifespan
.P
* Only priorities that have an unlimited lifespan
.P
* The effective priorities
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-all
List all priorities.  This is the default.
Options -a, -l and -e are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-lifespanType singleMount | unlimited
List only priorities with the specified lifespan.  Valid values are
"singleMount" and "unlimited".
Options -a, -l and -e are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-e, \-\-effective (default)
List effective priorities.  This is the default type of list to be displayed.
Options -a, -l and -e are mutually exclusive.
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose
Verbose.  Display the column headings.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Get usage information.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
