.\" Copyright (C) 2003  CERN
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
.\" as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
.\" of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
.TH VDQMSETPRIORITY 1 "$Date: 2008/07/21 13:17:04 $" CASTOR "Set a volume priority"
.SH NAME
vdqmsetpriority \- set a volume priority
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "vdqmsetpriority -v VID -a tapeAccessMode [ -l lifespanType ] -p priority [ -h ]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vdqmsetpriority
sets a volume access priority within the VDQM database.
.P
The RecallHandler daemon and the tape operator command-line tools send volume
access priorities to the VDQM. A volume access priority sent from the
RecallHandler will exist in the VDQM database for a single-mount of the tape in
question.  A volume access priority sent from the tape operator command-line
tools will by default have an unlimited lifespan within the VDQM database.  The
priority will stay active until it is explicitly removed by the tape operator
command-line tools.
A volume access priority is a quadruple of:
.RS
.P
*
.B VID
.br
Volume visual identifier
.P
*
.B
Access mode
.br
Either read or write
.P
*
.B
Lifespan type
.br
Either single-mount or unlimited
.P
*
.B
Priority number
.br
A positive integer , where 0 is the lowest and default priority
.RE
.P
A volume access priority quadruple is uniquely identified or named by the inner
triplet of VID, access mode and lifespan type.  The priority number of the
quadruple is the value of the volume access priority.  This means a given VID
and access mode can have at most one "single-mount priority" and one "unlimited
priority".  The effective priority in this case would be the unlimited priority.
In other words, unlimited priorities overide single-mount priorities.
.P
If a priority set by
.B
vdqmsetpriority
does not already exist in the database, then a new one will be inserted.  Else
if the priority already exists, then its priority number will be updated.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-vid VID\fR
Volume visual identifier
.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-tapeAccessMode read | write
Tape access mode.  Valid values are "read" and "write".
.TP
\fB\-l, \-\-lifespanType singleMount | unlimited (default)
Lifespan type. Valid values are "singleMount" and "unlimited".  The default
value is "unlimited"
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-priority positive integer
Volume priority.  A positive integer, where 0 is the lowest and default
priority
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help
Get usage information

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
