.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH RMCD "8castor" "$Date: 2009/08/18 09:43:01 $" CASTOR "rmc Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
rmcd \- start the Remote Media Changer daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rmcd
.I smc_ldr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
.B rmcd
command starts the Remote Media Changer daemon.
.LP
.I smc_ldr
is the picker device as defined in /dev.
.LP
If the Remote Media Changer daemon is not active,
the requests are automatically retried by the client API.
.LP
All error messages and statistical information are kept in the log file
/var/log/castor/rmcd.log.
.LP
.SH CASTOR CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS READ BY THE SERVER
The remote media changer daemon reads and uses the following CASTOR
configuration parameters which are specified within the CASTOR
configuration file /etc/castor/castor.conf.
.TP
\fBRMC PORT
The port on which the remote media changer daemon will listen for client
requests.  The default value is 5014.  This configuration parameter should
\fBNOT\fP normally be set and the default should be used.

.SH CASTOR CONFIGURATION PARAMETERS READ BY THE CLIENTS
The clients of the remote media changer daemon read and use the following
CASTOR configuration parameters which are specified within the CASTOR
configuration file /etc/castor/castor.conf.
.TP
\fBRMC HOST
The host on which the rmcd daemon is running and listening for client requests.
.TP
\fBRMC PORT
The port on which the remote media changer daemon will listen for client
requests.  The default value is 5014.  This configuration parameter should
\fBNOT\fP normally be set and the default should be used.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES READ BY THE CLIENTS
The clients of the remote media changer daemon read and use the following
environment variables.  Please note that an environment variable will override
the equivalent CASTOR configuration parameter located within the CASTOR
configuration file /etc/castor/castor.conf.
.TP
\fBRMC_HOST
The same meaning as the CASTOR configuration parameter RMC HOST described
above.
.TP
\fBRMC_PORT
The same meaning as the CASTOR configuration parameter RMC PORT described
above.

.SH THE SERVER LOG FILE
.LP
The remote media changer daemon writes logs to the file
/var/log/castor/rmcd.log.  Each entry within the log has a timestamp.
For each user command there is one message RMC92 giving information about
the requestor (hostname, uid, gid) and one message RMC98 giving the command
itself.
The completion code of the command is also logged.
.SH FILES
.TP 1.5i
.B /var/log/castor/rmcd.log
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Here is a small log:
.nf
12/06 11:40:58  7971 rmc_srv_mount: RMC92 - mount request by 0,0 from tpsrv015.cern.ch
12/06 11:40:58  7971 rmc_srv_mount: RMC98 - mount 000029/0 on drive 2
12/06 11:41:08  7971 rmc_srv_mount: returns 0
12/06 11:42:43  7971 rmc_srv_unmount: RMC92 - unmount request by 0,0 from tpsrv015.cern.ch
12/06 11:42:43  7971 rmc_srv_unmount: RMC98 - unmount 000029 2 0
12/06 11:42:48  7971 rmc_srv_unmount: returns 0
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
