.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stageinit.man,v $ $Revision: 1.10 $ $Date: 2002/05/31 08:16:25 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1995-1999 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGEINIT l "$Date: 2002/05/31 08:16:25 $"
.SH NAME
stageinit \- tells stgdaemon to reread the pool configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stageinit
[
.B \-F
] [
.BI \-X
] [
.BI \-h " host"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stageinit
tells stgdaemon to drain the service, i.e. rejects new stage requests but
let the current ones complete; then reread the pool configuration file:
some pools may have been added or suppressed or filesystems in pools may
have been added or removed; then adjust space information according to the
new configuration and restart the service.
.B stageinit
is a privileged command restricted for use by an administrator.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-F
The command is executed immediately: new stage requests are rejected but
the daemon does not wait for existing stage requests to complete,
they just continue to run in parallel.
.TP
.BI \-h " host"
Sends the request to the stager on
.IR host .
This may also be specified thru the environment variable STAGE_HOST.
.TP
.B \-X
Updates all migration and fileclasses knowledge.
.SH FILES
.TP 1.5i
.B /etc/STGCONFIG
configuration file
.SH RETURN CODES
\
.br
0	Ok.
.br
1	Command aborted or another stageinit is pending.
.br
2	System error.
.br
4	Configuration error.
.br
187	User Privileve validation daemon not active
.br
198	Stager daemon not active
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
