.\" $Id: stagewrt_disk.man,v 1.1 2002/10/08 09:20:36 jdurand Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stagewrt_disk.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2002/10/08 09:20:36 $ CERN IT-DS/HSM Jean-Damien Durand
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/DS/HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGEWRT_DISK "3" "$Date: 2002/10/08 09:20:36 $" "CASTOR" "Stage Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stagewrt_disk \- Asks for one or more disks files to be copied from disk to disk
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "#include <" stage_api.h ">"
.sp
.BI "int stagewrt_disk(u_signed64 " flags ,
.BI "int " openflag ,
.BI "char *" hostname ,
.BI "char *" pooluser ,
.BI "int " nstcp_input ,
.BI "struct stgcat_entry *" stcp_input ,
.BI "int *" nstcp_output ,
.BI "struct stgcat_entry **" stcp_output ,
.BI "int " nstpp_input ,
.BI "struct stgpath_entry *" stpp_input ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstagewrt_disk\fP API method asks the stager for one or more DISK files to be copied from disk to disk.
There are two ouputs: the default ttys (unless you use \fBstage_setlog\fP) and the output parameters, that are allocated on the fly (e.g. the user will have to free them if necessary/wanted).

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 1.5i
.I flags
Can be zero or a logical or the following values:
.RS
.TP
.I STAGE_REQID
The member reqid of all 
.I stcp_input
structures given in input must match a known entry having exactly this request id. Otherwise, even it is set in the input structures, the reqid member will be ignored when processing the request.
.TP
.I STAGE_SILENT
Print nothing (the log callback will never be notified neither).
.TP
.I STAGE_NORETRY
Does not prevent stager daemon to decide to do a retry, neverthelessm, but prevents client to keep retrying in any case. Can be set with environment variable $STAGE_NORETRY to a non\-zero value.
.TP
.I STAGE_NOWAIT
If data is to be copied, this will be done in the background, and client will get an immediate return with ok status.
.RE
.TP
.I openflags
Not used here.
.TP
.I hostname
Gives explicitely the hostname where is the stager daemon. If it NULL, default value apply: either the environment variable $STAGE_HOST, an entry 'STG HOST' in /etc/shift.conf file, or the default "stagepublic".
.TP
.I pooluser
Not used here.
.TP
.I nstcp_input
Number of stcp_input entries.
.TP
.I stcp_input
Entries describing the files you want to be copied. Only the member xfile of the structures is mandatory. Other members of interest are:
.RS
.TP
.I size
Gives how many bytes should be allocated rather than the default
.TP
.I poolname
Specify explicitely a disk pool
.LP
Others members should all be setted to zero in order to avoid your request to possibly misbehave.
.RE
.TP
.I nstcp_output
Filled with the number of staged/copied entries at return.
.TP
.I stcp_output
Filled with the address of an array containg the staged entries at return. Up to the user to free it if necessary.
.TP
.I nstpp_input
Number of 
.I stpp_input
entries describing user links.
.TP
.I stpp_input
User links pointing to source files to be written.

.SH RETURN VALUE
0 on success, -1 on failure.

.SH ERRORS
If failure, the serrno variable might contain one of the following error codes:
.TP 1.9i
.B SENOMAPFND
Can't open mapping database (Windows only)
.TP
.B EFAULT
Bad address
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid argument
.TP
.B ESTGROUP
Invalid group
.TP
.B SECONNDROP
Connection closed by remote end
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error
.TP
.B SEINTERNAL
Internal error
.TP
.B SEUSERUNKN
User unknown
.TP
.B ESTLINKNAME
User link name processing error
.TP
.B SEOPNOTSUP
Operation not supported (should not happen)
.TP
.B ESTMEM
Request too big
.TP
.B ENOENT
No such file or directory
.TP
.B SESYSERR
System error
.TP
.B ESTCLEARED
Request cleared
.TP
.B ESTKILLED
Request killed
.TP
.B ENOSPC
No space left on device
.TP
.B ESTLNKNSUP
Symbolic link not supported
.TP
.B ESTNACT
Stager not active (if you specify the STAGE_NORETRY flag - default is to retry forever)
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host not known

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBstagewrt\fP(1), \fBstage_limits\fP(3), \fBCastor_limits\fP(3), \fBstage_setlog\fP(3), \fBrc_castor2shift\fP(3), \fBstage_kill\fP(3), \fBstage_struct\fP(3), \fBstage_macros\fP(3), \fBstage_constants\fP(3)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>

