.\" $Id: stage_updc.man,v 1.8 2002/10/03 13:56:51 jdurand Exp $
.\"
.\" @(#)$RCSfile: stage_updc.man,v $ $Revision: 1.8 $ $Date: 2002/10/03 13:56:51 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Damien Durand
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 by CERN/IT/DS/HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH STAGE_UPDC "3" "$Date: 2002/10/03 13:56:51 $" "CASTOR" "Stage Library Functions"
.SH NAME
stage_updc \- update the stager catalog
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI "#include <" stage_api.h ">"
.sp
.BI "int stage_updc_tppos(char *" stageid ", int " status ", int " blksize ", char *" drive ", char *" fid ", int " fseq ", int " lrecl ", char *" recfm ", char *" path ");"
.sp
.BI "int stage_updc_filcp(char *" stageid ", int " status ", char *" ifce ", u_signed64 " size ", int " waiting_time ", int " transfer_time ", int " blksize ", char *" drive ", char *" fid ", int " fseq ", int " lrecl ", char *" recfm ", char *" path ");"
.sp
.BI "int stage_updc_filchg(char *" host ", stage_hsm_t " *hsmstruct ");"
.sp
.BI "int stage_updc_user(char *" host ", stage_hsm_t " *hsmstruct ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstage_updc_filcp\fP, \fBstage_updc_tppos\fP and \fBstage_updc_filchg\fP API methods calls for an update of a entry in the
.I stager
catalog.
.P
The \fBstage_updc_tppos\fP method is typically used to indicate to the stager that there has been a successful tape positionning, whereas \fBstage_updc_filcp\fP indicates to the stager that the current subrequest corresponding to global request
.BI stageid
is over.
.P
The \fBstage_updc_filchg\fP changes the status of an HSM file from STAGED to STAGEOUT.
.P
The \fBstage_updc_user\fP changes the status of a file from STAGEIN or STAGEOUT to STAGED.

.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 2.0i
.BI "char *" stageid
Gives the global stageid. This parameters is in the form: reqid.key@stagehost
.TP
.BI "int " status
Exit code for the file stage subrequest. It is used in \fBstage_updc_tppos\fP only if its value is \fBETFSQ\fP.
.TP
.BI "char *" ifce
Identifies the network interface used for the transfer between the tape server and the disk server.
.TP
.BI "u_signed64 " size
Gives the actual filesize in bytes.
.TP
.BI "int " waiting_time
Time spent before starting to transfer data between tape and disk server.
.TP
.BI "int " transfer_time
Time spent transferring data between tape and disk server.
.TP
.BI "int " blksize
Specifies the maximum block size.
.TP
.BI "char *" drive
Identifies the drive where the tape is mounted.
.TP
.BI "char *" fid
Specifies the fileid in HDR1.
.TP
.BI "int " fseq
Specifies the file sequence number of the tape file.
.TP
.BI "int " lrecl
Specifies the logical record length for fixed length record format files.
.TP
.BI "char *" recfm
Specifies the record format of the data on the tape. It may be
.BR U ,
.B F
or
.BR FB .
.TP
.BI "char *" path
Buffer where to receives enventual full path filename. Its recommended size is
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN+1.
.TP
.BI "stage_hsm_t *" hsmstruct
Linked list of structures that contain the following members:
.RS
.TP
.BI "char *" xfile;
Pointer to a HSM name, required to be non-NULL.
.TP
.BI "char *" upath;
Pointer to a user filename, required to be non-NULL.
.TP
.BI "u_signed64 " size;
Size, in bytes, of the amount of data you want to stage-in. Will be ignore is its value is 0 (zero).
.TP
.BI "stage_hsm_t *" next;
Pointer to next HSM structure. The last element has a NULL for this member.
.RE

.SH RETURN VALUE
0 on success, -1 on failure.

.SH ERRORS
If failure, the serrno variable might contain one of the following error codes:
.TP 1.9i
.B SENOMAPFND
Can't open mapping database
.TP
.B EFAULT
Bad address (invalid argument)
.TP
.B EINVAL
Invalid argument (bad stageid)
.TP
.B SECONNDROP
Connection closed by remote end
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
