.\" @project      The CERN Tape Archive (CTA)
.\" @copyright    Copyright © 2001-2022 CERN
.\" @license      This program is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\"               Licence version 3 (GPL Version 3), copied verbatim in the file "COPYING". You can
.\"               redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL Version 3, or (at your
.\"               option) any later version.
.\"
.\"               This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"               WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\"               PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"               In applying this licence, CERN does not waive the privileges and immunities
.\"               granted to it by virtue of its status as an Intergovernmental Organization or
.\"               submit itself to any jurisdiction.
.TH CPWD "3castor" "$Date: 2001/09/26 09:13:48 $" "CASTOR" "Common Library Functions"
.SH NAME
\fBCpwd\fP \- \fBCASTOR\fP \fBP\fPass\fBw\fPor\fBd\fP file Thread-Safe inferface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Cpwd.h>
.P
.BI "struct passwd *Cgetpwnam(char *" name ");"
.P
.BI "struct passwd *Cgetpwuid(uid_t " uid ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBCpwd\fP is a common Thread-Safe API interface to get entries in the password file by
.BI name
or
.BI uid.

.SH RETURN VALUE
These routines return a passwd struct for the given name/uid.
In case of error, 0 is returned and the \fBserrno\fP variable is set.

.SH ERRORS
possible values for serrno and their meaning :
.TP 1.2i
.B SEUSERUNKN
the requested user/uid was not found
.TP
.B SEINTERNAL
an error occured while attempting to retrieve the passwd structure. More details are given in the errno variable.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBserrno\fP, \fBgetpwnam\fP, \fBgetpwuid\fP

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
