.\" @project      The CERN Tape Archive (CTA)
.\" @copyright    Copyright © 2003-2022 CERN
.\" @license      This program is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\"               Licence version 3 (GPL Version 3), copied verbatim in the file "COPYING". You can
.\"               redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL Version 3, or (at your
.\"               option) any later version.
.\"
.\"               This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"               WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\"               PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"               In applying this licence, CERN does not waive the privileges and immunities
.\"               granted to it by virtue of its status as an Intergovernmental Organization or
.\"               submit itself to any jurisdiction.
.TH CUUID "3castor" "$Date: 2003/12/08 12:06:22 $" "CASTOR" "Common Library Functions"
.SH NAME
\fBCuuid\fP \- \fBCASTOR\fP \fBUUID\fP inferface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Cuuid_api.h>
.P
.BI "void Cuuid_create(Cuuid_t *" uuid ");"
.P
.BI "int Cuuid_compare(Cuuid_t *" uuid1 ", Cuuid_t *" uuid2 ");"

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBCuuid_create\fP function creates a new universally unique identifier
(UUID). The uuid will be generated based on high-quality randomness from
\fI/dev/urandom\fP, if available. If it is not available, then Cuuid_create
will use an alternative algorithm which uses the current time, the local
ethernet MAC address (if available), and random data generated using a
pseudo-random generator. The implementation internally uses the uuid_generate()
function from e2fsprogs.

The newly created UUID is returned in the memory location pointed to by
.I uuid.

.P
The \fBCuuid_compare\fP function compares two UUIDs
.I uuid1
and
.I uuid2
\"lexically\".
.P
Return value is -1 if
.I uuid1
is lexically before
.I uuid2
, 0 if they are equal, 1 if
.I uuid1
is lexically after
.I uuid2.

.SH NOTES
Lexical ordering is not temporal ordering.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBuuid_generate\fP(3)

.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
