.\" @project      The CERN Tape Archive (CTA)
.\" @copyright    Copyright © 2001-2022 CERN
.\" @license      This program is free software, distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
.\"               Licence version 3 (GPL Version 3), copied verbatim in the file "COPYING". You can
.\"               redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GPL Version 3, or (at your
.\"               option) any later version.
.\"
.\"               This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
.\"               WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
.\"               PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"               In applying this licence, CERN does not waive the privileges and immunities
.\"               granted to it by virtue of its status as an Intergovernmental Organization or
.\"               submit itself to any jurisdiction.
.TH LOG "3castor" "$Date: 2001/09/26 10:03:15 $" CASTOR "Common Library Functions"
.SH NAME
log, initlog  \- log messages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <log.h>
.LP
.B initlog(ident, level, output)
.B char \(**ident;
.B int \(*level;
.B char \(**output;
.LP
.B log(level, format, message, parameters, \&.\|.\|. )
.B int \(*level;
.B char \(**format;
.B char \(**message;
.fi
.IX  "openlog function"  ""  "\fLinitlog\fP \(em initialize log file"
.IX  "log function"  ""  "\fLlog\fP \(em write message to log file"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B log(\|)
logs
.I message
to
an appropriate log file, opened by
.BR initlog (l).
on another host over the network.
The message is tagged with a priority of
.IR level .
The message looks like a
.BR printf (3S)
string.
Priorities are encoded as a
.IR level .
The level is selected from an ordered list:
.RS
.TP 20
.SB LOG_EMERG
A panic condition.  This is normally broadcast to all users.
.TP
.SB LOG_ALERT
A condition that should be corrected immediately,
such as a corrupted system database.
.TP
.SB LOG_CRIT
Critical conditions, such as hard device errors.
.TP
.SB LOG_ERR
Errors.
.TP
.SB LOG_WARNING
Warning messages.
.TP
.SB LOG_NOTICE
Conditions that are not error conditions,
but that may require special handling.
.TP
.SB LOG_INFO
Informational messages.
.TP
.SB LOG_DEBUG
Messages that contain information
normally of use only when debugging a program.
.RE
.LP
If special processing is needed,
.B initlog(\|)
can be called to initialize the log file.
The parameter
.I ident
is a string that is prepended to every message.
.I level
is a indicating the level logging.
.RE
.SH COMMENT
The total line length printed should not exceed \fBBUFSIZ\fP-1 characters. When you provide a format string and arguments to
.B log(\|)
function, you have to be aware that
.B log(\|)
function prepend each line with a string that have the format
.ft CW
.nf
.sp
"%s %s[%d]: "
.ft
.LP
.fi
where first string is a timestamp with the format
.ft CW
.nf
.sp
"%b %d %H:%M:%S" or "%b %e %H:%M:%S"
.ft
.LP
.fi
 on Windows or Unix, respectively, the second string is a generic logname, defined previously using
.B initlog(\|)
function, then the decimal number is the process id of the caller.
.br
In case of multi-threaded programs, the string will be prepended with "%s %s[%d,%d]: ", where the second number is an internal thread id specific to CASTOR applications, or -1 if not found.
.P
This is why you should know in advance the order of magnitude of the length of your message.
.SH EXAMPLE
In case of non-multithreaded program you would see:
.ft CW
.nf
.sp
Nov  1 17:34:27 progname[1234]: This is your message with possible arguments, your pid is 1234
.ft
.LP
.fi
.P
In case of a multi-threaded application you would see:
.ft CW
.nf
.sp
Sep 26 11:40:24 progname[1234,4]: This is another message with other possible arguments, your pid is 1234, CASTOR's Thread Id is 4
.ft
.LP
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
syslog(3), Cthread(3), stdio(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
