.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2005 by CERN/IT/GD/CT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_SETFSIZEG 3 "$Date: 2008/11/10 16:07:59 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_setfsizeg \- set filesize for a regular file having the given GUID; set also last modification time to the current time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_setfsizeg (const char *" guid ,
.BI "u_signed64 " filesize ,
.BI "const char *" csumtype ,
.BI "char *" csumvalue,
.BI "time_t " new_mod_time,
.BI "time_t " last_mod_time )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_setfsizeg
sets the filesize for a regular file having the given GUID; set also the last modification time to the
current time. Takes care that the file was not modified by somebody else in the mean time.
If it was, ignores the request and fail with ENSFILECHG.
This function should only be called by the stager after the last write
operation has been performed on the file.
The file is identified by its
.IR guid .
.TP
.I guid
specifies the Grid Unique IDentifier.
.TP
.I csumtype
specifies the type of checksum. Valid types are:
.RS
.TP
.B CS
standard 32 bits checksum
.TP
.B AD
Adler 32 bits checksum
.TP
.B MD
MD5 128 bits checksum
.RE
.TP
.I new_mod_time
specifies the new modification time of the file.
.TP
.I last_mod_time
specifies the last modification time of the file, as known by the caller. This is used to double check that the file was not modified concurrently by somebody else.
.TP
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENSFILECHG
The file has been changed/overwritten by somebody else since the last_mod_time given. Request was thus ignored.
.TP 1.3i
.B EFAULT
.I guid
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of the
.I guid
exceeds
.B CA_MAXGUIDLEN
or the length of the
.I csumtype
exceeds 2 or
.I csumtype
is an unknown type or the length of the
.I csumvalue
exceeds 32.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_statg(3)
