.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_UPDATEFILE_CHECKSUM 3 "$Date: 2009/02/26 14:56:41 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_updatefile_checksum \- updates the checksum of a regular file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_updatefile_checksum (const char *" guid ,
.BI "const char *" csumtype ,
.BI "const char *" csumvalue )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_updatefile_checksum
updates the checksum for a regular file given the file path. Only files
with 0 file size can be updated by regular users. Admins can update any
file. Also the modification time of the file is changed by this command,
except for admins.
.TP
.I csumtype
specifies the type of checksum. The only valid type is :
.RS
.RS
.TP
.B AD
Adler 32 bits checksum
.RE
.TP
Extensions available for end-to-end file check summing support :
.RS
.TP
.B PA
pre Adler
.RE
.RE
.TP
.I csumvalue
the value of the checksum
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named file/directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of the
.I csumtype
exceeds 2 or
.I csumtype
is an unknown type or the length of the
.I csumvalue
exceeds 32.
.TP
.B EPERM
the file is not 0 size and the user has no admin rights
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
