.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_rmdir.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_RMDIR 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_rmdir \- remove a CASTOR directory in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_rmdir (const char *" path )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_rmdir
removes a CASTOR directory in the name server if it is empty.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.IR path
prefix or write permission is denied on the parent directory or
the parent has the sticky bit S_ISVTX set and
.RS 1.5i
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor does not match the owner ID of the directory and
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor does not match the owner ID of the
parent directory and
.LP
the requestor does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.RE
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The named directory is not empty.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I path
is the current directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_mkdir(3) ,
.B Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
