.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_setatime.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_SETATIME 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_setatime \- set last access time for a regular file to the current time
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_setatime (const char *" path ,
.BI "struct Cns_fileid *" file_uniqueid )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_setatime
sets the last access time for a regular file to the current time.
This function should only be called by the stager after the file has been
successfully recalled and every time a stagein requests this file, even if
the file already resides in the disk pool.
The file can be identified by
.I path
name or by
.IR file_uniqueid .
If both are specified,
.I file_uniqueid
is used.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.IR path
prefix or the caller effective user ID does not match the owner ID of the file
or read permission on the file itself is denied.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
and
.I file_uniqueid
are NULL pointers.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EISDIR
The file is not a regular file.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.B Cns_stat(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
