.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_readdir.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:19 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_READDIR 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:19 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_readdir \- read CASTOR directory opened by
.B Cns_opendir
in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "struct dirent *Cns_readdir (Cns_DIR *" dirp )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_readdir
reads the CASTOR directory opened by
.B Cns_opendir
in the name server.
This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current directory
entry.
.B Cns_readdir
caches a variable number of such entries, depending on the filename size, to
minimize the number of requests to the name server.
.TP
.I dirp
specifies the pointer value returned by
.BR Cns_opendir .
.SH NOTE
Only the fields d_name, d_reclen and on some platforms d_namlen are filled.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current directory
entry if the operation was successful or NULL if the end of the directory was
reached or if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EBADF
File descriptor in DIR structure is invalid.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I dirp
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Cns_closedir(3) ,
.BR Cns_opendir(3) ,
.BR Cns_rewinddir(3) ,
.B dirent
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
