.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_listtape.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_LISTTAPE 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_listtape \- list the file segments residing on a volume
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "struct Cns_direntape *Cns_listtape (char *" server ,
.BI "char *" vid ,
.BI "int " flags ,
.BI "Cns_list *" listp )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_listtape
lists the file segments residing on a volume.
.TP
.I server
specifies the CASTOR Name Server to be contacted to get the full path name
for the file segments residing on the volume.
.TP
.I vid
is the visual identifier of the volume.
.TP
.I flags
may be one of the following constant:
.RS
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_BEGIN
the first call for a volume must have this flag set to allocate buffers and
initialize pointers.
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_CONTINUE
all the following calls must have this flag set.
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_END
final call to terminate the list and free resources.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current tape segment
if the operation was successful or NULL if all segments have been returned
or if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The referenced volume does not exist anymore.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Memory could not be allocated for the output buffer.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I vid
or
.I listp
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I vid
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXVIDLEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.B Cns_getsegattrs(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
