.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_statg.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2005 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_STATG 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_statg \- get information about a CASTOR file or directory in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_statg (const char *" path ,
.BI "const char *" guid,
.BI "struct Cns_filestatg *" statbuf )
.sp
.BI "int Cns_statr (const char *" sfn ,
.BI "struct Cns_filestatg *" statbuf )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_statg
gets information about a CASTOR file or directory, having the given GUID, in the name server.
.LP
.B Cns_statr
retrieves information about the given replica. 
.LP
The file can be specified by
.I path
name or by
.IR guid .
If both are given, they must point at the same file.
.TP
.I guid
specifies the Grid Unique IDentifier.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I sfn
is either the Site URL or the Physical File Name for the replica.
.LP
The structure pointed to by
.I statbuf
contains the following members:
.RS
u_signed64	fileid;			/* entry unique identifier */
.br
char		guid[CA_MAXGUIDLEN+1]	/* GUID */
.br
mode_t		filemode;		/* see below */
.br
int		nlink;			/* number of files in a directory */
.br
uid_t		uid;
.br
gid_t		gid;
.br
u_signed64	filesize;
.br
time_t		atime;			/* last access to file */
.br
time_t		mtime;			/* last file modification */
.br
time_t		ctime;			/* last metadata modification */
.br
short		fileclass;		/* 1--> experiment, 2 --> user */
.br
char		status;			/* '-' --> online, 'm' --> migrated */
.br
char		csumtype[3];
.br
char		csumvalue[33];
.RE
.LP
filemode is constructed by OR'ing the bits defined in
.RB < sys/stat.h >
under Unix or \fB "statbits.h"\fR under Windows/NT:
.sp
.RS
.B S_IFLNK	0xA000		
symbolic link
.br
.B S_IFREG	0x8000		
regular file
.br
.B S_IFDIR	0x4000		
directory
.br
.B S_ISUID	0004000		
set user ID on execution
.br
.B S_ISGID	0002000		
set group ID on execution
.br
.B S_ISVTX	0001000		
sticky bit
.br
.B S_IRUSR	0000400		
read by owner
.br
.B S_IWUSR	0000200		
write by owner
.br
.B S_IXUSR	0000100		
execute/search by owner
.br
.B S_IRGRP	0000040		
read by group
.br
.B S_IWGRP	0000020		
write by group
.br
.B S_IXGRP	0000010		
execute/search by group
.br
.B S_IROTH	0000004		
read by others
.br
.B S_IWOTH	0000002		
write by others
.br
.B S_IXOTH	0000001		
execute/search by others
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named file/directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
or
.I statbuf
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of the
.I guid
component exceeds
.B CA_MAXGUIDLEN
or path and guid are both given and they point at a different file.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN
or the length of the
.I sfn
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXSFNLEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_chmod(3) ,
.BR Cns_chown(3) ,
.BR Cns_creatg(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
