.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_modifyclass.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:19 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2003 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_MODIFYCLASS 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:19 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_modifyclass \- modify an existing fileclass definition in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_modifyclass (char *" server ,
.BI "int " classid ,
.BI "char *" class_name ,
.BI "struct Cns_fileclass *" Cns_fileclass )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_modifyclass
modifies an existing fileclass definition in the name server.
The fileclass can be identified by
.I classid
or by
.IR class_name .
If both are specified, they must point at the same class.
.TP
.I server
specifies the CASTOR Name Server where the fileclass is currently defined.
.TP
.I Cns_fileclass
contains the new fileclass definition.
.LP
This function requires ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
When a numeric value is negative, the field is not modified.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named fileclass does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
The caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I classid
and
.I class_name
do not point at same class entry or the length of
.I class_name
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXCLASNAMELEN
or the length of stager name exceeds
.BR CA_MAXSHORTHOSTLEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_enterclass(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
