.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_utime.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2001-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_UTIME 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_utime \- set last access and modification times
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_utime (const char *" path ,
.BI "struct utimbuf *" times )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_utime
sets last access and modification times.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.LP
If
.I times
is NULL, the access and modification times are set to the current time else
they are set to the
.B utimbuf
structure member values.
ctime is set to current time.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EPERM
.I times
is not NULL and the caller effective user ID does not match the owner ID of the
file and the caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B ENOENT
A component of
.I path
prefix does not exist or
.I path
is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix or the caller effective user ID does not match the owner ID of the file
or write permission on the file itself is denied and
.I times
is NULL.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a  NULL pointer.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_stat(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
