.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_setcomment.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_SETCOMMENT 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_setcomment \- add/replace a comment associated with a CASTOR file/directory in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_setcomment (const char *" path ,
.BI "char *" comment )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_setcomment
adds/replaces a comment associated with a CASTOR file/directory in the
name server.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EPERM
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the directory and
does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix or write permission on the file/directory itself is denied.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
or
.I comment
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I comment
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXCOMMENTLEN .
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.B Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
