.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_updateseg_checksum.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $ CERN IT-DS/HSM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/DS/HSM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_UPDATESEG_CHECKSUM 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_updateseg_checksum \- Updates the checksum of a file segment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_updateseg_checksum (char *" server ,
.BI "u_signed64 " fileid ,
.BI "struct Cns_segattrs *" oldsegattrs ,
.BI "struct Cns_segattrs *" newsegattrs )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_updateseg_checksum
Updates the checksum of a file segment.
This function should be called by the stager to update the checksum
of file segment for files which did not previously 
have a checksum computed
The file is identified by
.I server
and
.IR fileid .
.TP
.I oldsegattrs
is a pointer to a Cns_segattrs structure containing the old segment attributes.
.TP
.I newsegattrs
is a pointer to a Cns_segattrs structure containing the new segment attributes.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
struct Cns_segattrs {
        int             copyno;         /* copy number */
        int             fsec;           /* file segment number */
        u_signed64      segsize;        /* file segment size */
        int             compression;    /* compression factor */
        char            s_status;       /* 'd' --> deleted */
        char            vid[CA_MAXVIDLEN+1];
        int             side;
        int             fseq;           /* file sequence number */
        unsigned char   blockid[4];     /* for positionning with locate */
        char            checksum_name[CA_MAXCKSUMNAMELEN+1];
        unsigned long   checksum;
};
.ft
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The referenced file does not exist anymore.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I oldsegattrs
or
.I newsegattrs
are NULL pointers.
.TP
.B EISDIR
The file is not a regular file.
.TP
.B EINVAL
copyno/fsec pair in
.I newsegattrs
is not identical to the copyno/fsec pair in
.I oldsegattrs
or the length of
.I vid
in either 
.I oldsegattrs
or
.I newsegattrs
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXVIDLEN .
.TP
.B EPERM
Cannot update the checksum for a segment which already had a checksum.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SEENTRYNFND
vid, side or fseq in
.I oldsegattrs
does not match the current values in the database.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_getsegattrs(3) ,
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
