.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_getacl.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $ CERN IT-ADC/CA Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 by CERN/IT/ADC/CA
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_GETACL 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_getacl \- get CASTOR directory/file access control lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_getacl (const char *" path ,
.BI "int " nentries ,
.BI "struct Cns_acl *" acl )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_getacl
gets the Access Control List associated with a CASTOR directory/file.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I nentries
specifies the number of entries that can fit in the buffer. If
.I nentries
is zero, the
.I acl
pointer can be NULL and the routine just returns the actual number of entries.
.TP
.I acl
is a pointer to an array of Cns_acl structures allocated by the application
to receive the reply.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
struct Cns_acl {
        unsigned char   a_type;
        int             a_id;
        unsigned char   a_perm;
};
.ft
.fi
.TP
.I a_type
is the ACL type: CNS_ACL_USER_OBJ, CNS_ACL_USER, CNS_ACL_GROUP_OBJ,
CNS_ACL_GROUP, CNS_ACL_MASK or CNS_ACL_OTHER.
Types for default entries are obtained by OR'ing the flag CNS_ACL_DEFAULT with
one of the above types.
.TP
.I a_id
is the user or group numeric id.
.TP
.I a_perm
is the access permission in numeric form obtained by OR'ing some of the bits
S_IROTH, S_IWOTH, S_IXOTH.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns the actual number of entries if the operation was
successful or -1 if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named file/directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a NULL pointer or
.I acl
is a NULL pointer and
.I nentries
is greater than zero.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I nentries
is negative.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
.I nentries
is less than the number of entries returned by the server.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_chmod(3) ,
.BR nsgetacl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
