.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_setacl.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $ CERN IT-ADC/CA Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 by CERN/IT/ADC/CA
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_SETACL 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:20 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_setacl \- set CASTOR directory/file access control lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_setacl (const char *" path ,
.BI "int " nentries ,
.BI "struct Cns_acl *" acl )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_setacl
sets the Access Control List associated with a CASTOR directory/file.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I nentries
specifies the number of entries present in the buffer.
.TP
.I acl
is a pointer to an array of Cns_acl structures provided by the application.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
struct Cns_acl {
        unsigned char   a_type;
        int             a_id;
        unsigned char   a_perm;
};
.ft
.fi
.TP
.I a_type
is the ACL type: CNS_ACL_USER_OBJ, CNS_ACL_USER, CNS_ACL_GROUP_OBJ,
CNS_ACL_GROUP, CNS_ACL_MASK or CNS_ACL_OTHER.
Types for default entries are obtained by OR'ing the flag CNS_ACL_DEFAULT with
one of the above types.
.TP
.I a_id
is the user or group numeric id.
.TP
.I a_perm
is the access permission in numeric form obtained by OR'ing some of the bits
S_IROTH, S_IWOTH, S_IXOTH.
.LP
The effective user ID of the process must match the owner of the file or
the caller must have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EPERM
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and
the caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file/directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
or
.I acl
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I nentries
is not greater than zero or is greater than CA_MAXACLENTRIES or the ACL entries
are not valid.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The name server database is full.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_chmod(3) ,
.BR nssetacl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
