.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_chmod.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_CHMOD 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_chmod \- change access mode of a CASTOR directory/file in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_chmod (const char *" path ,
.BI "mode_t " mode )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_chmod
sets the access permission portion of the mode of a CASTOR directory/file in
the name server to the bit pattern in
.IR mode.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I mode
is constructed by OR'ing the bits defined in
.RB < sys/stat.h >
under Unix or \fB "statbits.h"\fR under Windows/NT:
.sp
.RS
.B S_ISUID	0004000		
set user ID on execution
.br
.B S_ISGID	0002000		
set group ID on execution
.br
.B S_ISVTX	0001000		
sticky bit
.br
.B S_IRUSR	0000400		
read by owner
.br
.B S_IWUSR	0000200		
write by owner
.br
.B S_IXUSR	0000100		
execute/search by owner
.br
.B S_IRGRP	0000040		
read by group
.br
.B S_IWGRP	0000020		
write by group
.br
.B S_IXGRP	0000010		
execute/search by group
.br
.B S_IROTH	0000004		
read by others
.br
.B S_IWOTH	0000002		
write by others
.br
.B S_IXOTH	0000001		
execute/search by others
.RE
.sp
The effective user ID of the process must match the owner of the file or
the caller must have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
If a directory is writable and has the sticky bit set, files/directories within
that directory can be removed or renamed only if:
.RS
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor matches the owner ID of the file or
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor matches the owner ID of the directory or
.LP
the file is writable by the requestor or
.LP
the requestor has ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EPERM
The effective user ID does not match the owner of the file and 
the caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file/directory does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
