.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_deleteclass.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_DELETECLASS 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_deleteclass \- delete a fileclass definition in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_deleteclass (char *" server ,
.BI "int " classid ,
.BI "char *" class_name )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_deleteclass
deletes a fileclass definition in the name server.
The fileclass can be identified by
.I classid
or by
.IR class_name .
If both are specified, they must point at the same class.
.TP
.I server
specifies the CASTOR Name Server where the fileclass is currently defined.
.LP
This function requires ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named fileclass does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
The caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B EEXIST
There are directories using this class.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I classid
and
.I class_name
do not point at same class entry or the length of
.I class_name
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXCLASNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_enterclass(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
