.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_getreplica.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $ CERN IT-GD/SC Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT/GD/SC
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_GETREPLICA 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_getreplica \- get the replica entries associated with a CASTOR file in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_getreplica (const char *" path ,
.BI "const char *" guid ,
.BI "const char *" se ,
.BI "int *" nbentries ,
.BI "Cns_filereplica **" rep_entries )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_getreplica
gets the replica entries associated with a CASTOR file in the name server.
LP
The file can be specified by
.I path
name or by
.IR guid .
If both are given, they must point at the same file.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I guid
specifies the Grid Unique IDentifier.
.TP
.I se
allows to restrict the replica entries to a given SE.
.TP
.I nbentries
will be set to the number of entries in the array of replicas.
.TP
.I rep_entries
will be set to the address of an array of Cns_filereplica structures allocated
by the API. The client application is responsible for freeing the array when not
needed anymore.
.PP
.nf
.ft CW
struct Cns_filereplica {
	u_signed64	fileid;
	u_signed64	nbaccesses;
	time_t		atime;		/* last access to replica */
	time_t		ptime;		/* replica pin time */
	char		status;
	char		f_type;		/* 'V' for Volatile, 'P' for Permanent */
	char		poolname[CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN+1];
	char		host[CA_MAXHOSTNAMELEN+1];
	char		fs[80];
	char		sfn[CA_MAXSFNLEN+1];
};
.ft
.fi
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Memory could not be allocated for unmarshalling the reply.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
and
.I guid
are NULL pointers or
.I nbentries
or
.I rep_entries
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I guid
exceeds
.B CA_MAXGUIDLEN
or the length of
.I se
exceeds
.B CA_MAXHOSTNAMELEN
or path and guid are both given and they point at a different file.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
