.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_listrep4gc.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $ CERN IT-GD/CT Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 by CERN/IT/GD/CT
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_LISTREP4GC 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:18 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_listrep4gc \- list replica entries that can be garbage collected
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "struct Cns_filereplica *Cns_listrep4gc (const char *" poolname ,
.BI "int " flags ,
.BI "Cns_list *" listp )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_listrep4gc
lists replica entries that can be garbage collected.
.TP
.I poolname
specifies the disk pool.
.TP
.I flags
may be one of the following constant:
.RS
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_BEGIN
the first call must have this flag set to allocate buffers and
initialize pointers.
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_CONTINUE
all the following calls must have this flag set.
.TP
.B CNS_LIST_END
final call to terminate the list and free resources.
.RE
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns a pointer to a structure containing the current replica
entry if the operation was successful or NULL if all entries have been returned
or if the operation failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOMEM
Memory could not be allocated for the output buffer.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I poolname
or
.I listp
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The length of
.I poolname
exceeds
.BR CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_addreplica(3)
