.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_dropsegs.man,v $ $Revision: 1.1 $ $Date: 2009/05/29 13:43:06 $
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2009 by CERN/IT/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_DROPSEGS 3 "$Date: 2009/05/29 13:43:06 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_dropsegs \- drop all segments of a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_dropsegs (const char *" path ,
.BI "struct Cns_fileid *" file_uniqueid )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_dropsegs
drop all segments of a given file.
The file can be identified by
.I path
name or by
.IR file_uniqueid .
If both are specified,
.I file_uniqueid
is used.
.TP 1.4i
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.TP
.I file_uniqueid
specifies the fileid of the CASTOR file
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B ENOENT
The referenced file does not exist anymore.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.I path
prefix or the caller effective user ID does not match the owner ID of the file
or write permission on the file itself is denied.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
and
.I file_uniqueid
are NULL pointers.
.TP
.B EISDIR
The file is not a regular file but a directory.
.TP
.B ENSISLINK
The file is not a regular file but a link.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team http://cern.ch/castor
