.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_enterclass.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2003 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_ENTERCLASS 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:17 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_enterclass \- define a new fileclass in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_enterclass (char *" server ,
.BI "struct Cns_fileclass *" Cns_fileclass )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_enterclass
defines a new fileclass in the name server.
.TP
.I server
specifies the CASTOR Name Server where the fileclass should be defined.
.LP
This function requires ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EACCES
The caller does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.B EEXIST
The class exists already.
.TP
.B EINVAL
classid is not strictly positive or class name is a null string or the length of
class name exceeds
.B CA_MAXCLASNAMELEN
or stager name exceeds
.B CA_MAXSHORTHOSTLEN
or max_filesize < min_filesize.
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_deleteclass(3) ,
.BR Cns_modifyclass(3) ,
.BR Cns_queryclass(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
