.\" @(#)$RCSfile: Cns_unlink.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2005 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH CNS_UNLINK 3 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:21 $" CASTOR "Cns Library Functions"
.SH NAME
Cns_unlink \- remove a CASTOR file entry in the name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
\fB#include "Cns_api.h"\fR
.sp
.BI "int Cns_unlink (const char *" path )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Cns_unlink
removes a CASTOR file entry in the name server.
.TP
.I path
specifies the logical pathname relative to the current CASTOR directory or
the full CASTOR pathname.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This routine returns 0 if the operation was successful or -1 if the operation
failed. In the latter case,
.B serrno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 1.3i
.B EPERM
.I path
is a directory.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is a null pathname.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied on a component of the
.IR path
prefix or write permission is denied on the parent directory or
the parent has the sticky bit S_ISVTX set and
.RS 1.5i
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor does not match the owner ID of the file and
.LP
the effective user ID of the requestor does not match the owner ID of the
directory and
.LP
the file is not writable by the requestor and
.LP
the requestor does not have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.RE
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
is a NULL pointer.
.TP
.B EEXIST
File has replicas.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of
.I path
prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
The length of
.I path
exceeds
.B CA_MAXPATHLEN
or the length of a
.I path
component exceeds
.BR CA_MAXNAMELEN .
.TP
.B SENOSHOST
Host unknown.
.TP
.B SENOSSERV
Service unknown.
.TP
.B SECOMERR
Communication error.
.TP
.B ENSNACT
Name server is not running or is being shutdown.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chdir(3) ,
.BR Cns_rmdir(3) ,
.B Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
