.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nsfind.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:22 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH NSFIND 1 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:22 $" CASTOR "Cns User Commands"
.SH NAME
nsfind \- search for files in CASTOR name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsfind
.I path-list
[
.BI -atime " nbdays"
] [
.BI -ctime " nbdays"
] [
.BI -inum " fileid"
] [
.B -ls
] [
.BI -mtime " nbdays"
] [
.BI -name " pattern"
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsfind
searches for files in CASTOR name server.
.TP
.I path-list
specifies the list of CASTOR pathnames.
If
.I path
does not start with
.BR / ,
it is prefixed by the content of the
.B CASTOR_HOME
environment variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -atime " nbdays"
if
.I nbdays
is is just a number, the file is selected if it was accessed exactly
.I nbdays
ago. If the argument is in the form +n, this means more than n days ago and
if the argument is in the form -n, this means less than n days ago.
.TP
.BI -ctime " nbdays"
the file is selected if its status changed
.I nbdays
ago. See -atime above.
.TP
.BI -inum " fileid"
the file is selected if its fileid matches
.IR fileid .
.TP
.B -ls
list current file in "nsls -dil" format, i.e.
gives the file id, the file mode, the number of entries in the directory,
the owner in alphabetic form if the user ID is defined in the
.B passwd
file else as a decimal number,
the group in alphabetic form if the group ID is defined in the
.B group
file else as a decimal number, the file size, the last modification date and
the file name.
.LP
.RS
The mode is printed as 10 characters, the first one is
.B d
for a directory,
.B D
for a logically deleted file,
.B m
for a migrated file and
.B -
for a regular file.
The next 9 characters are three triplets: the first triplet gives read, write
and execute/search permission for the owner, the second triplet for the group
and the last one for the others.
.RS
.TP
.B r
the file is readable
.TP
.B w
the file is writable
.TP
.B x
the file is executable or the directory is searchable
.TP
.B -
permission is not granted
.TP
.B s
set-user-ID or set-group-ID bit is on
.TP
.B t
sticky bit is on
.RE
.RE
.TP
.BI -mtime " nbdays"
the file is selected if it has been modified
.I nbdays
ago. See -atime above.
.TP
.BI -name " pattern"
select the file if the file name matches regular expression
.IR pattern .
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/group
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.B Cns_chmod(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
