.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nsls.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:22 $ CERN IT-PDP/DM Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 1999-2003 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH NSLS 1 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:22 $" CASTOR "Cns User Commands"
.SH NAME
nsls \- list CASTOR name server directory/file entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsls
.RB [ -cdiLlRTu ]
.RB [ --class ]
.RB [ --comment ]
.RB [ --deleted ]
.RB [ --display_side ]
.RB [ --ds ]
.IR path ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsls
lists CASTOR name server directory/file entries.
If
.I path
is a directory,
.B nsls
list the entries in the directory; they are sorted alphabetically.
.TP
.I path
specifies the CASTOR pathname.
If
.I path
does not start with
.BR / ,
it is prefixed by the content of the
.B CASTOR_HOME
environment variable.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
use time of last metadata modification instead of last file modification.
.TP
.B -d
if
.I path
is a directory, list the directory entry itself, not the files in that
directory.
.TP
.B -i
print the file uniqueid in front of each entry.
.TP
.B -L
for symbolic links, print target attributes instead of link attributes.
.TP
.B -l
long listing (see below).
.TP
.B -R
list the contents of directories recursively.
.TP
.B -T
list file segments migrated to tape.
.TP
.B -u
use last access time instead of last modification.
.TP
.B --class
print the file class in front of each entry.
.TP
.B --comment
print the comment associated with the entry after the pathname.
.TP
.B --deleted
print also the logically deleted files.
.TP
.BR --display_side " or " --ds
print the vid followed by a slash followed by the media side number.
This option is valid only if -T is specified and is useful for multi-sided
media like DVD.
.LP
The long list gives the file mode, the number of entries in the directory,
the owner in alphabetic form if the user ID is defined in the
.B passwd
file else as a decimal number,
the group in alphabetic form if the group ID is defined in the
.B group
file else as a decimal number, the file size, the last modification date and
the file name.
.LP
The mode is printed as 10 characters, the first one is
.B d
for a directory,
.B D
for a logically deleted file,
.B l
for a symbolic link,
.B m
for a migrated file and
.B -
for a regular file.
The next 9 characters are three triplets: the first triplet gives read, write
and execute/search permission for the owner, the second triplet for the group
and the last one for the others.
.RS
.TP
.B r
the file is readable
.TP
.B w
the file is writable
.TP
.B x
the file is executable or the directory is searchable
.TP
.B -
permission is not granted
.TP
.B s
set-user-ID or set-group-ID bit is on
.TP
.B t
sticky bit is on
.RE
.LP
The file segments list gives the file segment status, the copy number, the file
segment number, the tape visual identifier, the file sequence number on tape,
the blockid, the segment size, the compression factor and the file name.
The segment status can be either
.B -
for an active segment or
.B D
for a logically deleted segment.
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/group
.TP
.B /etc/passwd
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chmod(3) ,
.BR Cns_getcomment(3) ,
.B Cns_getsegattrs(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
