.\" Copyright (C) 2000-2002 by CERN/IT/PDP/DM
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH NSMODIFYCLASS 1 "$Date: 2008/11/03 10:37:05 $" CASTOR "Cns Administrator Commands"
.SH NAME
nsmodifyclass \- modify an existing file class
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nsmodifyclass
<\f--id=CLASSID|--name=CLASSNAME\fR> [\fIOPTION\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nsmodifyclass
modifies an existing file class.
The fileclass can be identified by CLASSID or by CLASSNAME.
If both are specified, they must point at the same class.
.LP
This command requires ADMIN privileges in the Cupv database.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI -h,\ \-\-host=HOSTNAME
specify the name server hostname. This can also be set through the
CNS_HOST environment variable.
.TP
.BI --flags=FLAGS
.TP
.BI --gid=CLASSGID
The class is restricted to this group gid.
.TP
.BI --group=CLASSGRP
The class is restricted to this group name
.TP
.BI --id=CLASSID
The class number of the class to be modified.
.TP
.BI --maxdrives=NUM
Specifies the number of drives which can be used in parallel for a migration.
.TP
.BI --maxfilesize=NUM
Specifies the maximum file size. There is no limit by default.
.TP
.BI --maxsegsize=NUM
Specifies the maximum segment size. There is no limit by default.
.TP
.BI --migr_interval=NUM
A new migration will be started if at least NUM seconds have elapsed since the last migration.
.TP
.BI --minfilesize=NUM
Specifies the minimum file size. The default value is 0.
.TP
.BI --mintime=NUM
A file will not be migrated unless at least NUM seconds have elapsed since the last update.
.TP
.BI --name=CLASSNAME
The name of the class to be modified.
.TP
.BI --nbcopies=NUM
Specifies the number of copies for a file. Each copy is written to a different
tape pool.
.TP
.BI --newname=CLASSNAME
The class name must be at most CA_MAXCLASNAMELEN characters long.
.TP
.BI --retenp_on_disk=NUM
Specifies the maximum retention period (in seconds) for a file on disk.
The retention period can also be set to AS_LONG_AS_POSSIBLE or INFINITE_LIFETIME.
If zero, the file is purged immediately after migration.
Default is AS_LONG_AS_POSSIBLE, i.e. purged when disk space is needed.
.TP
.BI --tppools=POOL1:POOL2...
Specifies the tape pools to be used for migration. The number of tape pools
must be at least as big as the number of copies.
Pool names must be at most CA_MAXPOOLNAMELEN characters long.
.TP
.BI --uid=CLASSUID
The class is restricted to this user uid.
.TP
.BI --user=CLASSUSER
The class is restricted to this user name
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display this help and exit
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_modifyclass(3) ,
.B Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
