.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nssetchecksum.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:23 $ CERN IT-ADC-CA Ben Couturier
.\" Copyright (C) 2004 by CERN/IT/ADC/CA
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH NSSETCHECKSUM 1 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:23 $" CASTOR "Cns User Commands"
.SH NAME
nssetchecksum \- Sets or resets the checksum for a tape segment.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nssetchecksum
.B --copyno  
.RB copy_number
.B --segmentno 
.RB segment_number
.RB [ --update ]
.B --checksum_name
.RB checksum_name
.B --checksum
.RB checksum 
.IR path ...
.sp
.B nssetchecksum
.B --copyno  
.RB copy_number
.B --segmentno 
.RB segment_number
.B --clr
.IR path ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nssetchecksum
Sets or resets the checksum for a tape segment. Requires the ADMIN privilege in
Cupv, unless the
.B --update 
option is used, in which case tape segments with empty checksum
can be updated without special privileges.
.TP
.I path
specifies the CASTOR pathname.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --copyno
specifies which copy of the file should be modified.
.TP
.B --segmentno
specifies which tape segment should be modified.
.TP
.B --update
use the Cns_updateseg_checksum call rather than Cns_replaceseg.
.TP
.B --checksum_name
Name of the checksum to be stored in the database.
.TP
.B --checksum
Value of the checksum to be stored in the database.
.TP
.B --clr
Resets the checksum to a NULL name, and a 0 value. Cannot be used in conjunction
with --checksum_name and --checksum nor --update. Requires the ADMIN UPV privileges.
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Cns_replaceseg(3) ,
.BR Cns_updateseg_checksum(3)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
