.\" @(#)$RCSfile: nssetacl.man,v $ $Revision: 1.2 $ $Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:23 $ CERN IT-ADC/CA Jean-Philippe Baud
.\" Copyright (C) 2003 by CERN/IT/ADC/CA
.\" All rights reserved
.\"
.TH NSSETACL 1 "$Date: 2006/01/26 15:36:23 $" CASTOR "Cns User Commands"
.SH NAME
nssetacl \- set CASTOR directory/file access control lists
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nssetacl
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ -m ]
.RB [ -s ]
.I acl_entries
.IR path ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nssetacl
sets the Access Control List associated with a CASTOR directory/file.
.LP
.I acl_entries
is a comma separated list of entries. Each entry has colon separated fields:
ACL type, id (uid or gid), permission. Only directories can have default ACL
entries.
.LP
The entries look like:
.sp
.nf
.ft CW
     user::perm
     user:uid:perm
     group::perm
     group:gid:perm
     mask:perm
     other:perm
     default:user::perm
     default:user:uid:perm
     default:group::perm
     default:group:gid:perm
     default:mask:perm
     default:other:perm
.ft
.fi
.LP
The ACL type can be abbreviated to the first letter.
The first "user" entry gives the permissions granted to the owner of the file.
The following "user" entries show the permissions granted to specific users,
they are sorted in ascending order of uid.
The first "group" entry gives the permissions granted to the group owner of the
file.
The following "group" entries show the permissions granted to specific groups,
they are sorted in ascending order of gid.
The "mask" entry is the maximum permission granted to specific users or groups.
It does not affect the "owner" and "other" permissions.
The "mask" entry must be present if there are specific "user" or "group" entries.
"default" entries associated with a directory are inherited as access ACL by
the files or sub-directories created in that directory. The
.B umask
is not used.
Sub-directories also inherit the default ACL as default ACL.
As soon as there is one default ACL entry, the 3 default ACL base entries
(default user, default group, default other) must be present.
.LP
The entry processing conforms to the Posix 1003.1e draft standard 17.
.LP
The effective user ID of the process must match the owner of the file or
the caller must have ADMIN privilege in the Cupv database.
.TP
.I path
specifies the CASTOR pathname.
If
.I path
does not start with
.BR / ,
it is prefixed by the content of the
.B CASTOR_HOME
environment variable.
.TP
.I uid
can be given as the username or the corresponding numeric id.
.TP
.I gid
can be given as the groupname or the corresponding numeric id.
.TP
.I perm
can be expressed as a combination of characters
.B rwx-
or as a value between 0 and 7.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -d
remove ACL entries. The "perm" field is ignored.
.TP
.B -m
modify existing ACL entries or add new entries.
.TP
.B -s
set the ACL entries. The complete set of ACL entries is replaced.
.SH EXAMPLES
Let's create a directory:
.nf
.ft CW
	nsmkdir /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d6
.ft
.fi
and add write permission for user bcouturi:
.nf
.ft CW
	nssetacl -m u:bcouturi:rwx,m:rwx /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d6
.ft
.fi
Let's create a directory:
.nf
.ft CW
	nsmkdir /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7
.ft
.fi
and add default ACLs to it:
.nf
.ft CW
	nssetacl -m d:u::7,d:g::7,d:o:5 /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7
.ft
.fi
Let's check the resulting ACLs:
.nf
.ft CW
	nsgetacl /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7
# file: /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7
# owner: baud
# group: c3
user::rwx
group::r-x              #effective:r-x
other::r-x
default:user::rwx
default:group::rwx
default:other::r-x
.ft
.fi
.sp
Let's create a sub-directory and check the resulting ACLs:
.nf
.ft CW
	nsmkdir /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/d2
	nsgetacl /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/d2
# file: /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/d2
# owner: baud
# group: c3
user::rwx
group::rwx              #effective:rwx
other::r-x
default:user::rwx
default:group::rwx
default:other::r-x
.ft
.fi
.sp
Let's create a file in the same directory and check the resulting ACLs:
.nf
.ft CW
	nstouch /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/f2
	nsgetacl /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/f2
# file: /castor/cern.ch/user/b/baud/d7/f2
# owner: baud
# group: c3
user::rw-
group::rw-              #effective:rw-
other::r--
.ft
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
This program returns 0 if the operation was successful or >0 if the operation
failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR Castor_limits(4) ,
.BR Cns_chmod(3) ,
.BR Cns_chown(3) ,
.BR Cupvlist(1)
.SH AUTHOR
\fBCASTOR\fP Team <castor.support@cern.ch>
